greater levels of functionality and more sophisticated product offerings from their software and services providers.  

Increased importance is being placed on leveraging cloud-based technology to better manage logistics processes and to connect and collaborate with trading partners on a global basis, as well as to reuse and share supply chain data in order to accelerate time-to-value. Cloud-based technology also enables business networks to more easily unite and integrate services provided by a broad range of partners and technology alliances to extend functionality and further enhance collaboration between business communities. As a result, we believe there is a trend away from using manual and paper-based supply chain and logistics processes towards electronic processes powered by the exchange of electronic information between logistics and supply chain participants.  

Accordingly, we expect that our future success will be dependent upon our ability to enhance current products or develop and introduce new products offering enhanced performance and new functionality at competitive prices. In particular, we believe customers are looking for end-to-end solutions that combine a multi-modal, multi-process network with business document exchange and wireless mobile resource management applications with end-to-end global trade compliance, trade content and collaborative supply chain execution applications. These applications include freight bookings, contract and rate management, classification of goods for tariff and duty purposes, sanctioned party screening, customs filings and electronic shipment manifest processes, transportation management, routing and scheduling, purchase order to dock door processes, and inventory visibility.  

We believe there is a continued acceptance of subscription pricing and SaaS business models in the markets we serve that provide lower up-front cost and easier-to-maintain alternatives than may be available through traditional perpetual license pricing models. In 2024, our services revenues comprised $91 \%$ of our total revenues, with the balance being license, professional services and other revenues. We expect that our focus in fiscal 2025 will remain on generating services revenues, primarily by promoting the use of our GLN (including customs compliance services) and the migration of customers using our legacy license-based products to our services-based architecture. We anticipate maintaining the flexibility to license our products to those customers who prefer to buy the products in that fashion and the composition of our revenues in any one quarter will be impacted by the buying preferences of our customers.  

We have significant contracts with our license customers for ongoing support and maintenance, as well as significant service contracts which provide us with recurring services revenues. After their initial term, our service contracts are generally renewable at a customer’s option, and there are generally no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software or subscribe for additional services. In a typical year, based on our historic experience, we anticipate that over a one-year period we may lose approximately $4 \%$ to $6 \%$ of our aggregate annualized recurring revenues from the previous year in the ordinary course, excluding consideration of new customers.  

We internally measure and manage our “baseline calibration”, which we define as the difference between our “baseline revenues” and “baseline operating expenses”. Each of these measures constitutes a “supplementary financial measure” under Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Instrument 52-112 and does not have a directly comparable financial measure disclosed in our financial statements. We define our “baseline revenues” as our visible, recurring and contracted revenues. Baseline revenues are not a projection of anticipated total revenues for a period as they exclude any anticipated or expected new sales for a period beyond the date that the baseline revenues are measured. We define our “baseline operating expenses” as our total expenses less interest, investment and other income, taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation (for which we include related costs and taxes), acquisitionrelated costs, contingent consideration and restructuring charges. Baseline operating expenses are not a projection of anticipated total expenses for a period as they exclude any expenses associated with anticipated or expected new sales for a period beyond the date that the baseline expenses are measured. Our baseline calibration is not a projection of net income for a period or adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for a period as it excludes anticipated or expected new sales for a period beyond the date that the baseline calibration is measured, excludes any costs of goods sold or  