<html><body><table><tr><td>Purchase Price Allocation</td><td>Amount</td></tr><tr><td>Cashandcashequivalents</td><td>$ 1,000</td></tr><tr><td>Working capital adjustment</td><td>(2.450)</td></tr><tr><td>Total consideration</td><td>(1,450)</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Assets acquired:</td></tr><tr><td>Accounts receivable</td><td>4,282</td></tr><tr><td>Prepaid expenses</td><td>1,096</td></tr><tr><td>Property and equipment, net</td><td>400</td></tr><tr><td>Operating lease assets</td><td>31,635</td></tr><tr><td>Intangible assets</td><td>965</td></tr><tr><td>Total assets acquired</td><td>38,378</td></tr></table></body></html>  

<html><body><table><tr><td colspan="2">Liabilitiesassumed:</td></tr><tr><td>Accounts payable and accrued liabilities</td><td>810</td></tr><tr><td>Deferred revenue</td><td>1,969</td></tr><tr><td>Lease liabilities, current</td><td>1,179</td></tr><tr><td>Lease liabilities, long-term</td><td>30,779</td></tr><tr><td>Deferred income taxes</td><td>1,263</td></tr><tr><td>Total liabilitiesassumed</td><td>36,000</td></tr><tr><td>Net assets acquired</td><td>2.378</td></tr><tr><td>Gain on acquisition</td><td>$ 3,828</td></tr></table></body></html>  

The gain on acquisition represents the excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over consideration paid. The consideration paid represents a substantial discount to the book value of GSUSA’s net assets at the GSUSA Closing Date, primarily due to the fair value adjustments related to the trade name, fixed assets, and right-of-use lease assets and liabilities compared to book value. The gain on acquisition was primarily the result of prior financial results, a lack of access to capital by the Seller, and the agreed upon purchase price which reflected the fact that GSUSA may need additional capital to fund operating losses.  

The fair value of the identified intangible assets, including customer contracts and relationships and trade name were determined using the income-based approach. The fair value of curricula and accreditation and licensing identified intangible assets were determined using the cost approach. The table below presents a summary of intangible assets acquired and the useful lives of these assets (in thousands):  

<html><body><table><tr><td>Intangible Assets</td><td>Useful life</td><td> Amount</td></tr><tr><td>Customer contracts and relationships</td><td> 2.5 years</td><td>$ 744</td></tr><tr><td>Curricula</td><td>3 years</td><td>158</td></tr><tr><td>Trade name</td><td>1 year</td><td>35</td></tr><tr><td>Accreditation and licensing</td><td> 2.5 years</td><td>28</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>$ 965</td></tr></table></body></html>  

Pro forma financial information relating to the GSUSA Acquisition is not presented because the GSUSA Acquisition did not represent a significant business acquisition for the Company.  

The Company incurred approximately $\$ 7.6$ million and $\$ 1.9$ million of acquisition-related expenses related to RU and GSUSA, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022, respectively. These expenses are included in general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  