<html><body><table><tr><td>1.</td><td>Where the company has calculated the employees</td><td colspan="3">The Company has _calculated the employee compensation cost using the intrinsic value method of accounting to account for options issued under the</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2">stock options: i. the difference between the employee compensation cost so computed and the employee compensation cost that shall be recognised if it had used the fair value of</td><td colspan="2">Employee compensation cost: - intrinsic value based</td><td>Rs. 0.77 crores</td></tr><tr><td>- fair value based Difference</td><td></td><td>Rs.1.84 crores Rs.1.07 crores</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3"></td><td rowspan="3">the options shall be disclosed. ii.The impact of this difference: - on profits</td><td></td><td>Reported</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Net Profit</td><td>Rs.1,007.61 crores</td><td>Adjusted Rs.1,006.54 crores</td></tr><tr><td>Basic: Diluted:</td><td>Rs. 80.94 Rs. 80.91</td><td>Rs. 80.86 Rs. 80.83</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">m.</td><td rowspan="2">Weighted average exercise prices of options: i.equal to market price of the stock ii. less than market price of the stock Weighted average fair values of options</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Rs. 683/-</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="5">stock ii. less than the market price of the stock. A description of the method used during the year to estimate the fair values of options.</td><td rowspan="5">Significant assumptions used</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td>Rs. 462/-</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Black - Scholes Method</td></tr><tr><td>during the year to estimate the fair values of options including the following weighted average information:</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>i．Risk - free interest rate ii. Expected life</td><td>8% Period up to vesting plus the average of the exercise period corresponding to each vesting.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>iii. Expected volatility</td><td>Implied volatility of the Company’s stock prices on NSE based on the price data of last one year up to the date of grant</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2">iv.Expected dividend</td><td rowspan="2">Tranche I= 49% Tranche II = 52%</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>Adjustment of the closing price of the Company's share on the NSE for the</td></tr></table></body></html>  