# Management Discussion and Analysis (Continued)  

# Theatre system maintenance  

Theatre system maintenance revenue increased $2 5 . 2 \%$ from $\mathsf { U S$ 9 9 . 3 }$ million in FY2015 to $\cup \ S \$ 11.7$ million in FY2016. Maintenance revenue increased in FY2016 commensurate with the increase in the number of theatres in the IMAX theatre network.  

# Film Business  

Revenue from our film business decreased $5 . 8 \%$ from $\cup \ S \$ 28.5$ million in FY2015 to $\cup \ S \$ 26.8$ million in FY2016, primarily due to a decrease in the box office revenue generated by IMAX films. The box office revenue generated by IMAX films decreased $5 . 3 \%$ from $\cup \ S \$ 312.4$ million in FY2015 to $\cup \mathtt { S P 2 9 5 . 7 }$ million in FY2016, as a result of lower box office revenue per screen. The overall PRC market on a same currency basis increased $3 . 7 \%$ from FY2015 to FY2016.  

Box office revenue per screen decreased $3 0 . 6 \%$ from $\cup \ S \$ 1.34$ million for FY2015 to $\cup \mathtt { S$ 0 .9 3 }$ million in FY2016 as a result of the strong performance of the Company’s film slate in FY2015, which included the top grossing Hollywood film of all time in China, Furious 7, along with Avengers Age of Ultron and Jurrassic World. The depreciation of the RMB relative to the USD also impacted recorded box office in FY2016 versus FY2015.  

The following table sets out the number of films we released in the IMAX format in FY2016 and FY2015 in Greater China:   


<html><body><table><tr><td></td><td>FY2016</td><td>FY2015</td></tr><tr><td>Hollywood films</td><td>27</td><td>23</td></tr><tr><td>Hollywood films (Hong Kong and Taiwan only)</td><td>9</td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td>Chinese language films</td><td>10</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td>Total IMAX films released</td><td>46</td><td>41</td></tr></table></body></html>  

# Cost of Sales  

Our cost of sales increased $2 8 . 5 \%$ from $\cup \ S \$ 38.3$ million in FY2015 to $\mathsf { U S S 4 9 . 2 }$ million in FY2016. This increase was due to the increase in costs for both our theatre and films business segments as a result of increased business activity.  

# Theatre Business  

The cost of sales for our theatre business increased $2 6 . 8 \%$ from $\cup \ S \$ 31.6$ million in FY2015 to $\cup \ S \$ 40.0$ million in FY2016, primarily due to the installation of a total of 8 additional IMAX theatre systems under sales arrangements and hybrid revenue sharing arrangements as well as the maintenance associated with the growth in the IMAX theatre network.  

# Sales arrangements  

Cost of sales from our theatre business under sales arrangements increased $5 2 . 7 \%$ from $\cup \mathbb { S } \$ 1123$ million in FY2015 to $\cup \ S \$ 17.5$ million in FY2016, primarily due to the installation of 26 IMAX theatre systems under sales arrangements in FY2015 which includes 1 laser upgrade, as compared to 35 in FY2016 which included 2 laser upgrades.  