Education and Awareness: We provide periodic mandatory training for personnel regarding cybersecurity threats as a means to equip our employees with effective tools to address cybersecurity threats, and to communicate our evolving information security policies, standards, processe and practices. We also perform periodic email phishing tests to keep cybersecurity awareness top of mind.

We engage in the periodic assessment of our policies, standards, processes and practices that are designed to address cybersecurity threats and incidents. These efforts include a wide range of activities, including audits, assessments, vulnerability testing and other exercises focused on evaluating the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures and planning. The results of such assessments, audits and reviews are reported to the Audit Committee, and we adjust our cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices as necessary based on the information provided by these assessments, audits and reviews. See “—Risk Management and Strategy” above.

As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company is not aware of any cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. As cybersecurity threats become more sophisticated and coordinated, it is reasonably likely that we will be required to expend greater resources to continue to modify and enhance our protective measures as we pursue our business strategies. For additional information concerning risks related to cybersecurity, see Item 1.A. Risk Factors — Our internal information technology systems, or those of our third-party contract research organizations (“CROs”) or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer cybersecurity threats or breaches, loss or leakage of data and other disruptions, which could result in a material disruption of certain parts of our business, compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information, potentially exposing us to liability or otherwise adversely affecting our business.

# ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

In our U.S. segment, our U.S. headquarters is located in Alpharetta, Georgia, consisting of approximately 14,900 square feet of office space. Our lease for this facility expires in December 2032 with an early termination option in December 2029 and an option to extend five years beyond December 2032.

In our international segment, we lease approximately 4,500 square feet of office space in Dublin, Ireland, approximately 1,000 square feet of office space in Berlin, Germany, and approximately 6,000 square feet of office space in Aldershot, U.K. Our leases for these facilities in Ireland and Germany expire in August 2024 and June 2024, respectively. Our lease for the U.K. facility expires in December 2024. We anticipate that following the expiration of these leases, we will be able to lease additional or alternative space at commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, we have an agreement to use approximately 400 square feet of office space in Lisbon, Portugal, which can be terminated with 90 days’ notice.

We do not own any real estate.

# ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From time to time, we may become subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. However, third parties might allege that we are infringing their patent rights or that we are otherwise violating their intellectual property rights, including trade names and trademarks. Such third parties may resort to litigation. We currently are not a party to any threatened or pending material litigation and do not have contingency reserves established for any litigation liabilities. We accrue contingent liabilities when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated.

# ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.