ur business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results o Operations.”

# The banking industry is heavily regulated and that regulation, together with any future legislation or regulatory changes, could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our operations or financial results.

We operate in an extensively regulated industry and we are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. The Company is subject to Federal Reserve regulations, and the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the NYDFS. Our compliance with banking regulations is costly and restricts some of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our business. If, as a result of an exam, a banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital adequacy, asset quality, asset concentration, earnings prospects, management, liquidity sensitivity to market risk or other aspects of any of our operations has become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management are in violation of any law or regulation, the banking agency could take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate.

Furthermore, our regulators also have the ability to compel us to take certain actions, or restrict us from taking certain actions entirely, such as actions that our regulators deem to constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or regulatory policies and interpretations of such laws and regulations, could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

# Our trust and investment management businesses are highly regulated.

Through our investment management division, we provide investment management, custody, safekeeping and trust services to institutional clients. These products and services require us to comply with a number of regulations issued by the Department of Labor, the Employee Retiremen Income Security Act, the FDIC Statement of Principles of Trust Department Management, and federal and state securities regulators.

Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees, litigation, or other sanctions. Any such failure could have an adverse effect on our reputation and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.

# The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank.

The Federal Reserve requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, we could be required to provide financial assistance to the Bank if the Bank experiences financial distress.

A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and therefore we may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

# We face a risk of noncompliance with the BSA and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations and corresponding enforcemen proceedings.

The BSA, the PATRIOT Act, the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs, and to file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. FinCEN, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the BSA, is