Our business also depends on using certain intellectual property and tooling that we have rights to use pursuant to license grants under our contracts with OEM customers. These contracts contain restrictions on our use of the intellectual property and tooling, and may be terminated if we violate certain of these restrictions. Our loss of a contract with an OEM customer and the related license rights to use an OEM’s intellectual property or tooling, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

# We could become involved in intellectual property litigation, which could have a material and adverse impact on our profitability.

We and other companies in our industry possess certain proprietary rights relating to designs, engineering, manufacturing processes and MRO procedures. In the event that we believe that a third party is infringing upon our proprietary rights, we may bring an action to enforce such rights. In addition, we are from time to time involved in legal proceedings by third parties claiming infringement by us with respect to their proprietary rights. The expense and time of bringing an action to enforce such rights or defending against infringement claims can be significant, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Intellectual property litigation involves complex legal and factual questions which makes the outcome of any such proceedings subject to considerable uncertainty. Not only can such litigation divert management’s attention, but it can also expose us to damages and potential injunctive relief which, if granted, may preclude us from making, using or selling particular products or technology. Uncertainties resulting from our participation in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or interim proceedings or developments that could be perceived negatively by analysts or investors and the value of such intellectual property could be diminished. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.

# Our operations depend on our facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production.

Our facilities or our customers’ facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, or terrorist activity. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood, tornado, pandemic, or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products, and the loss of sales and customers, and we may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. For leased facilities, timely renewal of leases, and risk mitigation from the sale of our leased facilities, is required to avoid any business interruption.

# Our reputation, ability to do business and financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, subcontractors, suppliers, business partners or joint ventures in which we participate.

We have implemented policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls, and have negotiated terms designed to prevent misconduct by employees, agents or others working on our behalf or with us that would violate the applicable laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing improper payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled products and services, cost accounting and billing, competition and data privacy. However, we cannot ensure that such controls will prevent all such misconduct committed by our employees, agents, subcontractors, suppliers, business partners or others working on our behalf or with us, and this risk of improper conduct may increase as we expand globally. In the future, we may form and/or become a member of joint ventures. We may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by these joint ventures (including their officers, directors and employees) or our partners. Improper actions by those with whom or through whom we do business (including our employees, agents, subcontractors, suppliers, business partners and joint ventures) could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and monetary and nonmonetary penalties, including suspension and debarment, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.