# Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

# 1. CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION

Kingbo Strike Limited (the “Company”) was incorporated in the Cayman Islands on 19 June 2013 as an exempted company with limited liability under the Companies Law, Cap. 22 of the Cayman Islands. The Company’s registered office address is Cricket Square, Hutchins Drive, PO Box 2681, Grand Cayman KY1-1111, Cayman Islands. The Company was registered with the Registrar of Companies in Hong Kong as a non-Hong Kong company under the Companies Ordinance of Hong Kong on 5 September 2013 and the principal place of business in Hong Kong registered is at Unit 4408, 44th Floor, COSCO Tower, 183 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong.

The Company is an investment holding company. The Group is principally engaged in the provision of electrical engineering services in Singapore and the construction, operation and sale of solar power station projects in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”).

# Information about subsidiaries

Particulars of the Company’s subsidiaries as at 30 June 2016 are as follows:

<table><tr><td>Name</td><td>Place of incorporation and business</td><td>Issued ordinary/ registered share capital</td><td colspan="3">Percentage of equity attributable to the Company</td><td>Principal activities</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Direct Indirect Direct  Indirect 2016</td><td></td><td>2015</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Strike Electrical Engineering Pte Ltd (&quot;Strike Singapore&quot;)</td><td> Singapore</td><td>S$1,510,000</td><td>100</td><td></td><td>100</td><td>Electrical works and general building engineering services</td></tr><tr><td>Triple Treasure Global Limited</td><td>British Virgin IslandsUS$1 (&quot;BVI&quot;)</td><td></td><td>100</td><td></td><td>100</td><td> Investment holding</td></tr><tr><td>Capital Asia Investment Limited</td><td>Hong Kong</td><td>HK$1</td><td></td><td>100</td><td>100</td><td> Investment holding</td></tr><tr><td>Marvel Skill Holdings Limited?</td><td>BVI</td><td>US$50,000</td><td>100</td><td></td><td></td><td> Investment holding</td></tr><tr><td>Kahuer Holding Co., Limited1</td><td>BVI</td><td> US$50,000</td><td></td><td>60</td><td></td><td> Investment holding</td></tr><tr><td>Loydston International Limited!</td><td>Hong Kong</td><td>HK$500,000</td><td></td><td>60</td><td></td><td> Investment holding</td></tr><tr><td>A#$I)R]1,3,5 (Kaihe New Energy (Zhenjiang) Company Limited) (&quot;Kaihe New Energy&quot;)</td><td>PRC</td><td>RMB755,316</td><td></td><td>60</td><td></td><td>Construction, operation and sale of solar power station projects</td></tr><tr><td>1,4,5 (Zhenjiang Kaipu Photovoltaic Power Company Limited) (&quot;Zhenjiang Kaipu&quot;)</td><td>PRC</td><td>RMB10,000</td><td></td><td>60</td><td></td><td>Construction and operation of solar power station projects</td></tr><tr><td>1,4,5 (Zhenjiang Kaineng Photovoltaic Power Company Limited) (&quot;Zhenjiang Kaineng&quot;)</td><td>PRC</td><td>RMB10,000</td><td></td><td>60</td><td></td><td>Construction and operation of solar power station projects</td></tr></table>