<table><tr><td>1.</td><td>Where the company has calculated the employees</td><td colspan="3">The Company has calculated the employee compensation cost using the intrinsic value method of accounting to account for options issued under the</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2">stock options: i. the difference between the employee compensation cost so computed and the. employee compensation cost that shall be recognised if it had used the fair value of</td><td colspan="3">Employee compensation cost: - intrinsic value based - fair value based.</td></tr><tr><td>Difference</td><td></td><td>Rs. 1.84 crores Rs. 1.07 crores</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3"></td><td rowspan="3">the options shall be disclosed. ii. The impact of this difference: on profits</td><td></td><td>Reported</td><td>Adjusted</td></tr><tr><td>Net Profit</td><td>Rs. 1,007.61 crores</td><td>Rs. 1,006.54 crores</td></tr><tr><td>Basic: Diluted:</td><td>Rs. 80.94 Rs. 80.91</td><td>Rs. 80.86 Rs. 80.83</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">m.</td><td rowspan="2">Weighted average exercise prices of options:u. i.  equal to market price of the stock ii. less than market price of the stock Weighted average fair values of options. i.  equal to market price of the stock</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">of the stock. A description of the method used during the year to estimate the fair values of options. Significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair values of options</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2">Rs. 462/- Black -- Scholes Method</td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4">ii. Expected life</td><td rowspan="4">including the following. weighted average information: i. Risk - free interest rate</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td></td></tr><tr><td>each vesting. iii. Expected volatility</td><td>8% Period up to vesting plus the average of the exercise period corresponding to</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan="2">Implied volatility of the Company&#x27;s stock prices on NSE based on the price data of last one year up to the date of grant Tranche I = 49% Tranche II = 52%</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td rowspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>iv. Expected dividend</td></tr></table>