polynomial may not achieve the maximum allowable number of roots given by the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, but this bound is sharp, in the sense that given a natural number $n$ there exist a polynomial of degree $n$ which has exactly $n$ zeros counting multiplicities.

Theorem 2.4. (Wilmshurst [14]) Let $h ( z )$ and $g ( z )$ be analytic polynomials of degree $n$ and m respectively with $n > m$ . Then $f ( z ) = h ( z ) + g ( z )$ , has at most $n ^ { 2 }$ zeros counting multiplicities. The case $n = m$ could have infinite number of zeros.

It was shown by Bshouty et al. [3] that there exists a complex-valued harmonic polynomial $f = h + \overline { { g } }$ , such that $h$ is an analytic polynomial of degree $n$ , $g$ is an analytic polynomial of degree $m \leq n$ and $f$ has exactly $n ^ { 2 }$ zeros counting with multiplicities in the field of complex numbers, $\mathbb { C }$ .

# 3 Main Results

In this section we state and prove the main results of the paper. The first part of this section is results regarding products of complex-valued harmonic functions; the second part is results about the boundary values of the factors ans products; and the third part is an auxiliary result concerning the the maximum number of zeros of the product, provided the product and factors are complex-valued harmonic polynomials.

# 3.1 Product of harmonic functions

We know that the square of real harmonic function $u$ cannot be harmonic, unless $u$ is a constant. Of course the square of analytic function is analytic and hence harmonic as any analytic function is complex-valued harmonic function. Similarly the square of anti-analytic function is anti-analytic and hence complex-valued harmonic function. But for the complex-valued harmonic function which is neither analytic nor anti-analytic we have the following result

Theorem 3.1. Suppose $f ( z ) = h ( z ) + { \overline { { g ( z ) } } }$ , is harmonic on $\Omega$ . Then $f ^ { 2 }$ , is harmonic on $\Omega$ if and only if either h or $g$ is a constant on $\Omega$ .

Proof. If either $h$ or $g$ is a constant on $\Omega$ , then it easy to see that the square of analytic function or the square of co-analytic function is harmonic on $\Omega$ . Assume that the square of a complex-valued harmonic function is harmonic on $\Omega$ . Then

$$
f ^ { 2 } = ( h + \overline { { g } } ) ^ { 2 } = h ^ { 2 } + \overline { { g } } ^ { 2 } + 2 h \overline { { g } }
$$

is harmonic on $\Omega$ implies that,

$$
\frac { \partial ^ { 2 } f ^ { 2 } } { \partial z \overline { { { z } } } } = 0 .
$$

From which we obtain,

$$
\frac { \partial ^ { 2 } f ^ { 2 } } { \partial z \overline { { z } } } = 2 \frac { \partial h } { \partial z } \frac { \partial \overline { { g } } } { \partial \overline { { z } } } = 0 ,
$$

This on turn implies that either of the following two is satisfied on $\Omega$ ,

$$
\frac { \partial h } { \partial z } = 0 , \frac { \partial \overline { { g } } } { \partial \overline { { z } } } = 0 .
$$

Hence either $h$ or $\overline { { g } }$ is a constant $\Omega$ . Which is the desired result.