of system (29) we can see that $e _ { n }$ is a real and positive root of the polynomial

$$
Q ( s ) : = \alpha s ^ { m + 1 } + \alpha s - 1 ,
$$

and, in view of Descartes’ rule of signs, there is a unique such $e _ { n }$ . Then

$$
e _ { j } = \left( \prod _ { k \geq j + 1 } \alpha _ { k } \right) e _ { n } , { \mathrm { ~ f o r ~ a l l ~ } } j \in [ n - 1 ] ,
$$

and hence $e \in { \mathrm { i n t } } \left( B _ { G } \right)$ is unique.

Several studies (see e.g. Sanchez (2009b) and the references therein) derived conditions guaranteeing that the equilibrium $e \in \operatorname { i n t } \left( B _ { G } \right)$ is globally asymptotically stable. Tyson (1975) analyzed the special case of (29) with $n = 3$ . He noted that if $e$ is locally asymptotically stable, then one may expect that all solutions converge to $e$ , and proved that system (29) admits a periodic solution whenever $e$ is unstable. For $n = 3$ , the model can also be studied using the theory of competitive dynamical systems (Smith, 1995). The case $n = 3$ has also been analyzed using the theory of Hopf bifurcations (Woller et al., 2014). For a general $n$ , the analysis using Hopf bifurcations becomes highly non-trivial and results exist only for special cases, e. g. under the additional assumption that all the $\alpha _ { i }$ ’s are equal, see Invernizzi and Treu (1991). Hastings et al. (1977) studied the general $n$ -dimensional case and proved that, if the Jacobian of the vector field at the equilibrium has no repeated eigenvalues and at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part, then the system admits a non-trivial periodic orbit; the proof relies on the Brouwer fixed point theorem.

Our Theorem 2 allows us to prove the following result.

Corollary 3 Consider the $n$ -dimensional Goodwin model (29) with $n \geq 3$ , and let e denote the unique equilibrium in int $( B _ { G } )$ . Let $J : \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }  \mathbb { R } ^ { n \times n }$ denote the Jacobian of the vector field of the Goodwin model. Suppose that $J ( e )$ has at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part. Then, for any initial condition $a \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n } \setminus \{ e \}$ such that $s ^ { - } ( a - e ) \leq 1$ , the solution $x ( t , a )$ of (29) converges to a (non-trivial) periodic orbit as $t \to \infty$ .

# PROOF.

The Jacobian of (29)

$$
J ( x ) = { \left[ \begin{array} { l l l l l l l } { - \alpha _ { 1 } } & { 0 } & { 0 } & { \ldots } & { 0 } & { - { \frac { m x ^ { m - 1 } } { ( 1 + x _ { m } ^ { m } ) ^ { 2 } } } } \\ { 1 } & { - \alpha _ { 2 } } & { 0 } & { \ldots } & { 0 } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 1 } & { - \alpha _ { 3 } } & { \ldots } & { 0 } & { 0 } \\ { \vdots } & { \vdots } & { \vdots } & { \ddots } & { \vdots } & { \vdots } \\ { 0 } & { 0 } & { 0 } & { \ldots } & { - \alpha _ { n - 1 } } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 0 } & { 0 } & { \ldots } & { 1 } & { - \alpha _ { n } } \end{array} \right] }
$$

has the sign pattern $A _ { 2 }$ in (3) for all $x \in \mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ , hence the system is 2-cooperative on $\mathbb { R } _ { \geq 0 } ^ { n }$ . We