by $U ( X )$ in Alt. In fact, one may verify that the semi-direct product $B \bowtie _ { \varphi } U ( X )$ with multiplication

$$
( b , x ) \cdot ( b ^ { \prime } , x ^ { \prime } ) = ( b b ^ { \prime } , x x ^ { \prime } + \varphi ( b ) x ^ { \prime } + x \varphi ( b ^ { \prime } ) )
$$

is an alternative algebra. We thus have a natural isomorphism

$$
\operatorname { S p l E x t } ( - , U ( X ) ) \cong \operatorname { H o m } _ { \mathbf { A l t } } ( - , U ( X ) )
$$

and we can state the following.

Theorem 3.2. The category $\mathbf { A l t } _ { 1 }$ is action representable with the actor of a unitary alternative algebra $X$ being isomorphic to $X$ itself. 

# 4. Poisson algebras

The aim of this section is to prove that the categories $\mathbf { P o i s } _ { 1 }$ of unitary Poisson algebras and $\mathbf { C P o i s } _ { 1 }$ of unitary commutative Poisson algebras over a field $\mathbb { F }$ with $\operatorname { c h a r } ( \mathbb { F } ) \neq 2$ are action representable.

We recall that a Poisson algebra is a vector space $X$ over $\mathbb { F }$ equipped with two bilinear multiplications

$$
\cdot \colon X \times X \to X \quad { \mathrm { ~ a n d ~ } } \quad [ - , - ] \colon X \times X \to X
$$

such that $( X , \cdot )$ is an associative algebra, $( X , \lfloor - , - \rfloor )$ is a Lie algebra and the Poisson identity holds:

$$
[ x , y z ] = [ x , y ] z + y [ x , z ] , \quad \forall x , y , z \in X .
$$

A Poisson algebra is said to be commutative (resp. unitary) if the underlying associative algebra is commutative (resp. unitary).

It was proved in [6] that for any Poisson algebra $X$ there exists a natural monomorphism of functors

$$
\tau \colon \mathrm { S p l E x t } ( - , X ) \longmapsto \mathrm { H o m } _ { \mathbf { A l g } ^ { 2 } } ( \tilde { U } ( - ) , [ X ] ) ,
$$

where $\mathbf { A } \mathbf { l g } ^ { 2 }$ denotes the category of algebras with two non-necessairly associative bilinear operations, $\tilde { U } \colon { \mathbf { P o i s } } \to { \mathbf { A l g } } ^ { 2 }$ is the forgetful functor and

$$
[ X ] = \{ f = ( f { \ast } - , - { \ast } f , [ f , - ] ) \in \mathrm { B i m } ( X ) \times \mathrm { D e r } ( X ) \mid \cdots
$$

$\cdots \mid f * [ x , y ] = [ f * x , y ] - [ f , y ] x , [ x , y ] * f = [ x * f , y ] - x [ f , y ] , [ f , x y ] = [ f , x ] y + x [ f , y ] \}$ is the universal strict general actor of $X$ , which is endowed with the bilinear multiplications

$$
f \cdot g = \left( f * ( f ^ { \prime } * - ) , ( - * f ) * f ^ { \prime } ) , f * [ f ^ { \prime } , - ] + [ f , - ] * f ^ { \prime } \right)
$$

and

$[ f , g ] = \left( f * [ f ^ { \prime } , - ] - [ f ^ { \prime } , f * - ] , [ f ^ { \prime } , - ] * f - [ f ^ { \prime } , - * f ] , [ f , [ f ^ { \prime } , - ] ] - [ f ^ { \prime } , [ f , - ] ] \right) .$

Furthermore, a morphism $\varphi = ( \varphi _ { 1 } , \varphi _ { 2 } , \varphi _ { 3 } ) \colon { \tilde { U } } ( B )  [ X ]$ belongs to $\operatorname { I m } ( \tau _ { B } )$ if and only if $( \varphi _ { 1 } , \varphi _ { 2 } ) \colon ( B , \cdot ) \to \mathrm { B i m } ( X )$ is an acting morphism in Assoc.

If $X$ has trivial annihilator or $( X ^ { 2 } , \cdot ) = ( X , \cdot )$ , then eq. (3.1) holds in $\operatorname { B i m } ( X )$ and we have a natural isomorphism

$$
\operatorname { S p l E x t } ( - , X ) \cong \operatorname { H o m } _ { \mathbf { A l g } ^ { 2 } } ( \tilde { U } ( - ) , [ X ] ) .
$$

This happens, for instance, when $X$ is a unitary Poisson algebra. In this case, it is possible to prove that $\lfloor X \rfloor$ is a Poisson algebra. Indeed, by the results in Section 3, the universal strict general actor $\lfloor X \rfloor$ may be described as the subalgebra of all pairs $( \alpha , [ f , - ] ) \in X \times \operatorname { D e r } ( X )$ such that

$$
\begin{array} { r } { \alpha [ x , y ] = [ \alpha x , y ] - [ f , y ] x , } \\ { \ [ x , y ] \alpha = [ x \alpha , y ] - x [ f , y ] } \end{array}
$$