by the WINGS-FMSP program at the Graduate School of Mathematical Sciences, the University of Tokyo.

# 2. isometries on hyperbolic plane

Let $\mathbb { H }$ be the upper half-plane model in hyperbolic geometry. The group of isometries of $\mathbb { H }$ is given by

$$
\mathrm { P S L } _ { 2 } ^ { \pm } ( \mathbb { R } ) = \left\{ \pm \left( { a \atop c } \quad { b } \right) \bigg | { a } , { b } , { c } , { d } \in \mathbb { R } , { a } d - { b } { c } = \pm 1 \right\} .
$$

Each isometry $g \in \mathrm { { P S L } _ { 2 } ^ { \pm } ( \mathbb { R } ) }$ is classified according to the absolute value of its trace (for example, see [5]):

- Case 1: det $g = 1$ (Orientation-preserving isometries)

• Elliptic if $| \operatorname { T r } g | < 2$ . In this case, $g$ has a unique fixed point in $\mathbb { H }$ .   
• Parabolic if $| \operatorname { T r } g | = 2$ . In this case, $g$ has a unique fixed point on the real axis.   
• Hyperbolic if $| \operatorname { T r } g | > 2$ . In this case, $g$ has exactly two fixed points on the real axis.

- Case 2: de $\mathrm { t } g = - 1$ (Orientation-reversing isometries)

• Reflection if $\operatorname { T r } g = 0$ . In this case, $g$ is an involution with a geodesic of fixed points.   
• Glide-reflection if $\operatorname { T r } g \neq 0$ . In this case, $g$ has two fixed points on the real axis.

For each $g \in \mathrm { { P S L } _ { 2 } ^ { \pm } ( \mathbb { R } ) }$ , the translation length $t _ { g }$ is defined as:

$$
t _ { g } = \operatorname* { i n f } _ { z \in \mathbb { H } } d ( z , g z ) .
$$

If $t _ { g }$ is positive, we call $g$ a positive translation isometry. For a positive translation isometry $g$ , the absolute value of the trace of $g$ satisfies the following:

$$
| \mathrm { T r } g | = \left\{ \begin{array} { l l } { \displaystyle 2 \cosh \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } , } & { \mathrm { i f ~ } g \mathrm { ~ i s ~ h y p e r b o l i c } , } \\ { \displaystyle 2 \sinh \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } , } & { \mathrm { i f ~ } g \mathrm { ~ i s ~ a ~ g l i d e - r e f l e c t i o n } . } \end{array} \right.
$$

For a positive translation isometry $g \in \mathrm { { P S L } _ { 2 } ^ { \pm } ( \mathbb { R } ) }$ , we define $A _ { g }$ as the axis of $g$ , i.e., the geodesic joining the two fixed points of $g$ , and let $\rho _ { A _ { g } }$ be the reflection with respect to $A _ { g }$ .

We state the following result from [1, Theorem 7.38.6] because it will be used later.

Theorem 2.1. [1, Theorem 7.38.6] Let $g$ and $h$ be hyperbolic transformations of the hyperbolic plane and suppose that $A _ { g }$ and $A _ { h }$ intersect at a point $P$ . Denote by $\theta _ { P }$ the angle at $P$ between forward direction of $A _ { g }$ and $A _ { h }$ . Then the composition $g \circ h$ is hyperbolic and

$$
\frac { 1 } { 2 } | \mathrm { T r } g h | = \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) + \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) \cos ( \theta _ { P } ) .
$$

Now, we generalize the above theorem to positive translation isometries. The proof of [1, Theorem 7.38.6] uses the law of cosines for the triangle formed by the three axes $A _ { g }$ , $A _ { h }$ , and $A _ { g h }$ to compute the absolute value of the trace. In this paper we compute the absolute value of the trace by matrix computations as follows.

Theorem 2.2. Let $g$ and $h$ be positive translation isometries and suppose that $A _ { g }$ and $A _ { h }$ intersect at a point $P$ . Denote by $\theta _ { P }$ the angle at $P$ between forward direction of $A _ { g }$ and $A _ { h }$ . Then, the following hold.

Case 1: If $g$ is a glide-reflection and $h$ is a hyperbolic element,

$$
\frac { 1 } { 2 } | \mathrm { T r } g h | = \left| \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) + \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) \cos \theta _ { P } \right| .
$$

Case 2: If both $g$ and $h$ are glide-reflections,

$$
\frac { 1 } { 2 } | \mathrm { T r } g h | = \left| \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \sinh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) + \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { g } } { 2 } \right) \cosh \left( \frac { t _ { h } } { 2 } \right) \cos \theta _ { P } \right| .
$$

Proof. Without loss of generality, we may assume the axis $A _ { g }$ equals the imaginary axis with the intersection point $P \in A _ { g } \cap A _ { h }$ located at $i \in \mathbb { H }$ . See Figure 1.