whose center vertex is $x$ , by adding an edge $\boldsymbol { v } \boldsymbol { x }$ and a pendent 4-cycle at vertex $\boldsymbol { v }$ . In that case, by Proposition 2.6, there is a hop dominating set $S$ of $H$ , such that $x \in S$ and $\textstyle | S | \leq { \frac { 2 ( n - 4 ) } { 5 } }$ , which implies that $S \cup \{ v \}$ is a hop dominating set $S$ of $G$ , a contradiction. Thus such a path $P$ exists. Note that $k \geq 2$ .

Claim 3.10. $k \in \{ 2 , 3 \}$

Proof. Suppose that $k \geq 4$ . Let $G ^ { \prime } = ( G - x x _ { 1 } ) + x _ { 1 } x _ { 4 }$ . Note that $x _ { 1 } x _ { 2 } x _ { 3 } x _ { 4 } v _ { 1 }$ is a pendent 4-cycle at $x _ { 4 }$ in $G ^ { \prime }$ . Note that $| V ( G ^ { \prime } ) | = n$ , $| E ( G ^ { \prime } ) | = | E ( G ) |$ , and $G ^ { \prime }$ has more pendent 4-cycles than $G$ .

Suppose that $\deg _ { G } ( x ) \geq 3$ . Then $\delta ( G ^ { \prime } ) \geq 2$ and $G ^ { \prime }$ has no connected component in $\boldsymbol { B }$ . There is a minimum hop dominating set $S ^ { \prime }$ of $G ^ { \prime }$ such that $x _ { 4 } , v , x \ \in \ S ^ { \prime }$ and $N _ { G } ( x _ { 4 } ) \cap S ^ { \prime } \neq \emptyset$ by Proposition 2.7. By the choice of $G$ , $\begin{array} { r } { | S ^ { \prime } | \le \frac { 2 n } { 5 } } \end{array}$ . Thus $S ^ { \prime }$ is a hop dominating set of $G$ , which is a contradiction.

Suppose that $\deg _ { G } ( x ) = 2$ . Then let $H$ be the connected component of $G ^ { \prime }$ containing $x _ { 4 }$ . Note that $| V ( H ) | \leq n - 5$ . There is a minimum hop dominating set $S ^ { \prime }$ of $G ^ { \prime }$ such that $x _ { 4 } \in S ^ { \prime }$ , $N _ { G ^ { \prime } } ( x _ { 4 } ) \cap S ^ { \prime } \neq \emptyset$ by Proposition 2.7. If $S ^ { \prime }$ contains $x _ { 1 }$ , then we replace $x _ { 1 }$ with $x _ { 3 }$ so that $S ^ { \prime }$ does not have $x _ { 1 }$ . Then $S ^ { \prime } \cup \{ v , x \}$ is a minimum hop dominating set of $G$ , a contradiction.

Let $G ^ { \prime } = G - \{ x _ { 1 } , \ldots , x _ { k - 1 } \}$ . Suppose that $\deg _ { G } ( x ) \geq 3$ . Then $\delta ( G ^ { \prime } ) \ge 2$ . If $G ^ { \prime }$ has no connected component in $\boldsymbol { B }$ , then take a minimum hop dominating set $S ^ { \prime }$ of $G ^ { \prime }$ such that $v , x \in S ^ { \prime }$ by Proposition 2.7, which implies that $S ^ { \prime }$ is a minimum hop dominating set of $G$ , a contradiction. Thus, $G ^ { \prime }$ has two connected components $D _ { 1 }$ and $D _ { 2 }$ . We may assume that $D _ { 1 } \notin B$ and $D _ { 2 } \in B$ . There is a hop dominating set $S _ { 1 }$ of $D _ { 1 }$ such that $v , x \in S _ { 1 }$ and $\begin{array} { r } { | S _ { 1 } | \le \frac { 2 | V ( D _ { 1 } ) | } { 5 } } \end{array}$ by Proposition 2.7. If $k = 3$ or $D _ { 2 } \neq C _ { 8 }$ , then by (3.1), there is a minimum hop dominating set $S _ { 2 }$ of $D _ { 2 }$ such that $\begin{array} { r } { | S _ { 2 } | \le \frac { 2 | V ( D _ { 2 } ) | + 2 ( k - 1 ) } { 5 } } \end{array}$ . If  tha $k = 2$ $D _ { 2 } = C _ { 8 }$ we take a m. Note that hop dominating set is a hop dominating $S _ { 2 }$ of of $D _ { 2 } - x _ { 2 }$ $\begin{array} { r } { | S _ { 2 } | = 3 \le \frac { 2 | V ( D _ { 2 } ) | + 2 ( k - 1 ) } { 5 } } \end{array}$ $S _ { 1 } \cup S _ { 2 }$ $G$ . Then

$$
| S _ { 1 } \cup S _ { 2 } | \le \frac { 2 | V ( D _ { 1 } ) | + 2 | V ( D _ { 2 } ) | + 2 ( k - 1 ) } { 5 } = \frac { 2 n } { 5 } ,
$$

which is a contradiction.

Suppose that $\deg _ { G } ( x ) = 2$ . Let $H$ be the connected component containing $x _ { k }$ . Then $| V ( H ) | \leq$ $n - 6$ . If $H \ne C _ { 8 }$ , then for a minimum hop dominating set $S$ of $H$ , we have $\begin{array} { r } { | S | \le \frac { 2 ( n - 6 ) + 2 } { 5 } } \end{array}$ by (3.1), and so $S \cup \{ v , x \}$ is a hop dominating set of $G$ whose size is at most $\frac { 2 n } { 5 }$ , a contradiction. Thus $H = C _ { 8 }$ . Then $G$ is one of the last two graphs in Figure 6, which shows that $\begin{array} { r } { \gamma _ { h } ( G ) \le \frac { 2 n } { 5 } } \end{array}$ . This completes the proof of our main theorem.

# 4 An open problem

It would be a natural extension to consider giving a sharp upper bound on the hop domination number for a graph with a large girth. So we propose the following open problem.