with $C ^ { \prime \prime } : = C _ { \mathrm { N a s h } , d } ^ { - 2 } | | | E | | | ^ { - 2 - \frac { 4 } { d } }$ , and finally

$$
\frac { 1 } { 2 } \frac { \mathrm { d } } { \mathrm { d } t } \| \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , \cdot , y ) \| _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } ^ { 2 } \leq - C ^ { \prime \prime } \left. \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , \cdot , y ) \right. _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } ^ { 2 + \frac { 4 } { d } } + \left. \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , \cdot , y ) \right. _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } ^ { 2 } .
$$

Denoting $q ( t ) : = \left( \lVert \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , \cdot , y ) \rVert _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } ^ { 2 } \right) ^ { - \frac 2 { d } }$ , we see therefore that

$$
q ^ { \prime } ( t ) \geq { \frac { 4 } { d } } \left( C ^ { \prime \prime } - q ( t ) \right) ,
$$

which implies

$$
q ( t ) \geq C ^ { \prime \prime } { \frac { 4 } { d } } t \mathrm { e } ^ { - { \frac { 4 } { d } } t } ,
$$

so that in the end

$$
\lVert \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , \cdot , y ) \rVert _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } ^ { 2 } \leq \left( C ^ { \prime \prime } \frac { 4 } { d } \right) ^ { - \frac { d } { 2 } } \mathrm { e } ^ { 2 T } t ^ { - \frac { d } { 2 } } .
$$

This yields the claimed $\mathrm { L } ^ { 2 }$ bound.

For the $\mathrm { L } ^ { \infty }$ bound, note first that the Laplace operator is self-adjoint, so that $\Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , x , y ) ~ =$ $\Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , y , x )$ . By the semigroup property, we therefore find that

$$
\begin{array} { l } { \displaystyle \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t , x , y ) = \int _ { \Omega } \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , x , z ) \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , z , y ) \mathrm { d } z } \\ { \displaystyle \qquad \leq \| \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , x , \cdot ) \| _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } \| \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , \cdot , y ) \| _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } } \\ { \displaystyle \qquad \leq \| \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , \cdot , x ) \| _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } \| \Gamma _ { \Omega } ( t / 2 , \cdot , y ) \| _ { \mathrm { L } ^ { 2 } ( \Omega ) } , } \end{array}
$$

and we use the already established $\mathrm { L } ^ { 2 }$ bound to conclude.

A direct interpolation between the $\mathrm { L } ^ { 1 }$ and $\mathrm { L } ^ { \infty }$ estimates yields the $\mathrm { L } ^ { p }$ estimate stated in the Lemma. Finally, the self-adjointness argument leads to the second group of estimates. 

In the context of the domains appearing in the proof of Proposition 5 (but keeping the notations of Lemma 11), we write down for the related geometry the following statement:

Lemma 12. Fix $T > 0$ . Then there exists a constant $C _ { T , d } ^ { * }$ such that for any domain

$$
\Omega : = B _ { d } ( 0 , R ) \cap \{ ( x ^ { \prime } , x _ { d } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d } : x _ { d } > \phi ( x ^ { \prime } ) \}
$$

for $R > 0$ and $\phi : \mathbb { R } ^ { d - 1 } \xrightarrow { } \mathbb { R }$ with $\begin{array} { r } { \| \nabla \phi \| _ { \infty } \leq \frac { 1 } { 1 1 d } } \end{array}$ with $\partial \Omega _ { n } = B _ { d } ( 0 , R ) \cap \{ x ^ { \prime } , x _ { d } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d } : x _ { d } = \phi ( x ^ { \prime } ) \}$ and $\partial \Omega _ { d } = \partial \Omega \ \backslash \ \partial \Omega _ { n }$ the constant $C _ { \Omega , T , d }$ âˆž 11ð‘‘ appearing in Lemma $1 1$ is bounded by $C _ { T , d } ^ { * }$ .

Proof. For the domain considered in the statement, we need an extension operator $E$ for functions $f \in { \mathrm { H } } ^ { 1 } ( \Omega )$ such that $f | _ { \partial \Omega _ { d } } = 0$ , for the norms $\mathrm { H } ^ { 1 }$ and $\mathrm { L } ^ { 1 }$ .

We can first extend $f$ to $\Omega _ { + } : = \{ ( x ^ { \prime } , x _ { d } ) \in \mathbb { R } ^ { d } : x _ { d } > \phi ( x ^ { \prime } ) \}$ by setting $E _ { 1 } f = 0$ on $\Omega _ { + } \setminus \Omega$ , and $E _ { 1 } f = f$ on $\Omega$ . Recalling that $f | _ { \partial \Omega _ { d } } = 0$ , we see that $\lvert \lvert E _ { 1 } \rvert \rvert _ { H ^ { 1 }  H ^ { 1 } } = 1$ and $\lvert \lvert E _ { 1 } \rvert \rvert _ { L ^ { 1 }  L ^ { 1 } } = 1$ . We to , so th $\Omega$ still thanks to Lemma 10, $\Omega _ { + }$ , $E _ { 2 }$ nd we $H ^ { 1 } ( \Omega _ { + } )$ $H ^ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ^ { d } )$ $\begin{array} { r } { \vert \vert \vert E _ { 2 } E _ { 1 } \vert \vert \vert = \vert \vert \vert E _ { 2 } \vert \vert \vert \le 2 \sqrt { 1 + \frac { 1 } { 1 2 1 d ^ { 2 } } } } \end{array}$ conclude the Lemma by setting $E : = E _ { 2 } E _ { 1 }$ . 

We now write down an estimate which is a direct consequence of Lemma 11, and which will be used several times in the sequel.