Lemma 4. The function det $A _ { n ; 3 }$ has the same sign as $\delta _ { n }$ in some neighborhood of the triangular boundary of the region $0 < x _ { 1 } < x _ { 2 } < 1$ . Hence, it is negative in this neighborhood if $n \leq 4 7 2$ and positive si $n \geq 4 7 3$ .

The proof follows by an analysis of the dominant terms in different pieces of the boundary.

Lemma 5. In the Newtonian case if $4 5 6 \leq n \leq 4 7 2$ , the function $A _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } )$ vanishes at least once on each of the intervals $( 0 , 0 . 0 9 8 )$ and (0.098, 1). If $4 7 3 \leq$ $n \leq 8 7 4$ , the function $A _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } )$ vanishes at least once on each of the intervals $( 0 , 0 . 9 7 )$ and (0.97, 1).

Proof of Lemma 5 We must study the roots in the interval $( 0 , 1 )$ of the equation

$$
\operatorname* { d e t } A _ { n ; 3 } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } ) = \delta _ { n } ^ { 3 } + p _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } ) \delta _ { n } + q _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } ) = 0 ,
$$

where

$$
\begin{array} { r l r } { p _ { n } ( x , \sqrt { x } ) } & { = } & { - k _ { n } ( x ) k _ { n } ( 1 / x ) - 2 k _ { n } ( \sqrt { x } ) k _ { n } ( 1 / \sqrt { x } ) } \\ { q _ { n } ( x , \sqrt { x } ) } & { = } & { k _ { n } ( x ) k _ { n } ( 1 / \sqrt { x } ) ^ { 2 } + k _ { n } ( 1 / x ) k _ { n } ( \sqrt { x } ) ^ { 2 } . } \end{array}
$$

From the analysis of $p _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } )$ and $q _ { n } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } )$ for $x$ close to 0 and $x$ close to 1 it follows that if $n \leq 4 7 2$ (resp. $n \geq 4 7 3$ ) the determinant $A _ { n ; 3 } ( x , { \sqrt { x } } )$ is negative (resp. positive) in a neighborhood of $x = 0$ and $x = 1$ .

Hence, to prove the Lemma, it is enough to check numerically that

• for each integer $4 5 6 \leq n \leq 4 7 2$ , $A _ { n ; 3 } ( 0 . 0 9 8 , \sqrt { 0 . 0 9 8 } )$ is positive.   
for each integer $4 7 3 \leq n \leq 8 7 4$ , $A _ { n ; 3 } ( 0 . 9 7 , \sqrt { 0 . 9 7 } )$ is negative.

This amounts to a finite number of checks.

The question of the positivity of the masses is more involved. In fact, not all the $( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } )$ for which de $\ t A _ { n ; 3 } ( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } ) = 0$ have corresponding masses such that all of them are positive.

The figure below displays curves in $( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } )$ for which det $A _ { n ; 3 } ( x _ { 1 } , x _ { 2 } ) = 0$ for the admissible range of $n$ . The curve for $n = 4 5 6$ looks like a small ellipse around $P = ( 0 . 0 9 8 , \sqrt { 0 . 0 9 8 } )$ , while the one for $n = 8 7 4$ looks like a small ellipse around $Q = ( 0 . 9 7 , \sqrt { 0 . 9 7 } )$ . The last curve of index 1 around $P$ has $n = 4 7 2$ , while the first curve of index 1 around $Q$ has $n = 4 7 3$ .