Proof. The result follows from the observation that

$$
\mathrm { r k } ( \mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C _ { 0 } \oplus C _ { 1 } } ) = \mathrm { r k } ( \mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C _ { 0 } } \oplus \mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C _ { 1 } } ) \geq \mathrm { r k } ( \mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C _ { 0 } } ) ,
$$

for any measurable subset $A$ of $X$ .

Observe that $\mathcal { A } _ { \kappa } ( \mathcal { X } )$ does not necessarily contains a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module. For instance, if $\mathcal { X }$ has $\aleph _ { 1 }$ coarsely connected components, no coarse $\mathcal { X }$ -module of rank $\aleph _ { 0 }$ can be faithful. However, it is possible to fully characterise the cardinals for which the approximable category contains a faithful module.

Lemma 2.10. Let $\mathcal { X }$ be a LFCM space with an infinite discrete partition. For any two discrete partitions $\{ A _ { i } \} _ { i \in I }$ and $\{ B _ { j } \} _ { j \in J }$ , the cardinalities of $I$ and $J$ are equal. Moreover, for an infinite cardinal $\kappa$ , the following statements are equivalent:

(1) $\kappa$ is greater than or equal to the cardinality of a discrete partition of $\mathcal { X }$ ;   
(2) $\mathcal { A } _ { \kappa } ( \mathcal { X } )$ contains a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module;   
(3) $\mathcal { A } _ { \kappa } ( \mathcal { X } )$ contains an ample $\mathcal { X }$ -module.

Proof. Since $\{ A _ { i } \} _ { i \in I }$ is a discrete partition of $\mathcal { X }$ , for each $j \in J$ , there exist only finitely many $i \in I$ such that $B _ { j } \cap A _ { i } \neq \varnothing$ . Consequently, $| J | \leq | I | \times \aleph _ { 0 }$ . Similarly, one has $| I | \leq | J | \times \aleph _ { 0 }$ . Note that if $\mathcal { X }$ admits an infinite discrete partition, then any discrete partition of $\mathcal { X }$ must also be infinite. It follows that

$$
| I | = | I | \times \aleph _ { 0 } = | J | \times \aleph _ { 0 } = | J | .
$$

For the second part of the statement, note that every ample $\mathcal { X }$ -module is necessarily faithful. Conversely, given a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module $C$ , let $H$ be a separable, infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. Define the $\mathcal { X }$ -module $C \otimes H$ , where the underlying Hilbert space is $H _ { C } \otimes H$ and the representation $\mathbb { 1 } _ { \bullet } ^ { C \otimes H }$ is given by $\mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C \otimes H } = \mathbb { 1 } _ { A } ^ { C } \otimes \mathrm { i d } _ { H }$ for all subsets $A$ . It is straightforward to verify that $C \otimes H$ is an ample $\mathcal { X }$ -module with the same rank as $C$ .

It remains to establish the equivalence of (1) and (2). If $\kappa$ exceeds the cardinality of the discrete partition, then the module constructed in Example 2.1 is a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module of rank $| I |$ . Conversely, suppose $C$ is a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module of rank $\kappa$ . Define $I _ { C } = \{ i \in I \mid A _ { i } \cap \mathrm { d o m } _ { 1 } ( C ) \neq \varnothing \} \subseteq I$ . By discretising $\mathcal { X }$ and $\operatorname { d o m } _ { 1 } ( C )$ , there exists a gauge $E \in { \mathcal { E } } ^ { I }$ such that

$$
I = E [ I _ { C } ] = \bigcup _ { i \in I _ { C } } E [ \{ i \} ] .
$$

It follows that the cardinality of $I$ is given by $\begin{array} { r } { | I _ { C } | \times \operatorname* { s u p } _ { i \in I _ { C } } | E [ \{ i \} ] | } \end{array}$ . Since $| E [ \{ i \} ] |$ is finite for all $i \in \mathcal I$ , we deduce $| I | = | I _ { C } |$ . $\boxed { \begin{array} { r l } \end{array} }$

We shall focus on the case of countably generated LFCM spaces. Accordingly, we aim to determine the cardinals $\kappa$ for which the approximable category $\mathcal { A } _ { \kappa } ( \mathcal { X } )$ contains a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module. The following lemma addresses this question in the connected case.

Lemma 2.11. If $\mathcal { X }$ is a countably generated LFCM space with a countable number of connected components, then $\mathcal { A } _ { \aleph _ { 0 } } ( \mathcal { X } )$ contains a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module.

Proof. Let $\{ A _ { i } \} _ { i \in I }$ be a discrete partition of $\mathcal { X }$ . By considering the discretisation $\mathcal { T } = ( I , \mathcal { E } ^ { I } , \mathcal { P } ( I ) )$ of $\mathcal { X }$ , as in Proposition 1.9, we obtain a locally finite, countably generated coarse space. We may select a generating set $\{ E _ { n } \} _ { n \in \mathbb { N } }$ for $\mathcal { L }$ satisfying the following conditions:

(1) For every $n \in \mathbb N$ , the inclusion $E _ { n } \subset E _ { n + 1 }$ holds;   
(2) For every $n \in \mathbb N$ , the entourage $E _ { n }$ is a gauge;   
(3) For every entourage $F \in { \mathcal { E } } ^ { I }$ , there exists $n \in  { \mathbb { N } }$ such that $F \subset E _ { n }$ .

Since $\mathcal { L }$ has a countable amount of connected components, there exists a sequence $\{ i _ { k } \} _ { k \in \mathbb { N } } \subset I$ such that for every $j \in J$ there are $n , k \in \mathbb { N }$ such that $( i _ { k } , j ) \in E _ { n }$ . As $\mathcal { L }$ is locally finite, the sets $E _ { n } [ i _ { k } ]$ are finite for all $n , k \in \mathbb { N }$ . Hence,

$$
I = \bigcup _ { k \in \mathbb { N } } \bigcup _ { n \in \mathbb { N } } E _ { n } [ i _ { k } ]
$$

is at most countable. Consequently, $\mathcal { X }$ admits a countable discrete partition. By Lemma 2.10, the approximable category $\mathcal { A } _ { \aleph _ { 0 } } ( \mathcal { X } )$ contains a faithful $\mathcal { X }$ -module. 

In the case where $\mathcal { X }$ has an uncountable number of connected components, the theorem above does not hold. For instance, consider an uncountable disjoint union of copies of $\mathbb { N }$ , equipped with an extended metric

$$
d ( n , m ) = \left\{ { \begin{array} { l l } { | n - m | , } & { { \mathrm { i f ~ } } n , m { \mathrm { ~ b e l o n g ~ t o ~ t h e ~ s a m e ~ c o p y ~ o f ~ N ; } } } \\ { \infty , } & { { \mathrm { o t h e r w i s e . } } } \end{array} } \right.
$$