Remark 3.15. Another interesting situation is when we have two foliated manifolds $( M , \mathcal { F } ^ { M } )$ and $( N , \mathcal { F } ^ { N } )$ , and a local diffeomorphism — say, a covering map — $F : M \to N$ which sends leaves of $\mathcal { F } ^ { M }$ into leaves of $\mathcal { F } ^ { N }$ , and we want to move affine information between them. Note that $F _ { * }$ maps $\mathcal { F } ^ { M }$ -vertical vectors into $\mathcal { F } ^ { N }$ -vertical vectors, but not necessarily surjectively. It will become clear that it is necessary that only $\mathcal { F } ^ { M }$ -vertical vectors are mapped into $\mathcal { F } ^ { N }$ -vertical vectors. For example, consider $i d : \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }  \mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ , where the first $\mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ is foliated by $\begin{array} { r } { T \mathcal { F } ^ { 1 } = \mathbb { R } \frac { \partial } { \partial y } } \end{array}$ and the second one is foliated by $\begin{array} { r } { T \mathcal { F } ^ { 2 } = \mathbb { R } \frac { \partial } { \partial x } \oplus \mathbb { R } \frac { \partial } { \partial y } } \end{array}$ . It is clear that $i d$ is a foliated diffeomorphism. The usual flat connection $\nabla ^ { \mathrm { H a t } }$ of $\mathbb { R } ^ { 3 }$ is a transverse affine connection to both foliations, albeit associated with different partner connections $\omega ^ { 1 }$ and $\omega ^ { 2 }$ (each of them is just $\nabla ^ { \mathrm { H a t } }$ restricted to the respective vertical distributions). However, $i d ^ { * } \nabla ^ { \mathrm { f l a t } } = \nabla ^ { \mathrm { f l a t } }$ and $i d ^ { * } \omega ^ { 2 } = \omega ^ { 2 }$ , which does not result in a transverse affine connection in the source foliation.

To achieve our goal, we must require furthermore that $\mathcal { F } ^ { M }$ and $\mathcal { F } ^ { N }$ are of the same dimension, so that vertical vectors on $^ { \prime } I ^ { \prime } M$ are in one-to-one correspondence with the vertical vectors in $T N$ . Indeed, if $( N , \mathcal { F } ^ { N } )$ is endowed with a transverse affine connection ${ \hat { \nabla } } ^ { N }$ , we can define the pullback $F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N }$ as follows: for $X , Y \in { \mathfrak { X } } ( M )$ , we set $( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { X } Y = Z$ , where $Z$ is given by: For $p \in M$ , let $\boldsymbol { \mathcal { U } }$ be any neighborhood of $p$ for which $\Phi : = F | _ { \mathcal { U } }$ is a diffeomorphism onto its (open) image. Then, $Z ( p ) : = d \Phi _ { p } ^ { - 1 } \left( \hat { \nabla } _ { \Phi _ { * } X } ^ { N } \Phi _ { * } Y \right) _ { \Phi ( p ) }$ . If $\omega ^ { N }$ is the partner connection associated with ${ \hat { \nabla } } ^ { N }$ , then we can check that, for any $V \in \mathfrak { X } ( \mathcal { F } ^ { M } )$ and any $X \in { \mathfrak { X } } ( M )$ we have

$$
\begin{array} { r l } & { ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { X } V = ( F ^ { * } \omega ^ { N } ) _ { X } V , } \\ & { ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { V } X = [ V , X ] + ( F ^ { * } \omega ^ { N } ) _ { X } V . } \end{array}
$$

As for the holonomy invariance condition, given $V \in \mathfrak { X } ( \mathcal { F } ^ { M } )$ , and $X , Y \in \mathfrak { L } ( \mathcal { F } ^ { M } )$ we have

$$
( \mathcal { L } _ { V } ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) ) ( X , Y ) = [ V , ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { X } Y ] - ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { [ V , X ] } Y - ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { X } [ V , Y ] .
$$

Note that the two properties that we already established imply that the two last terms above are vertical. As for the first one, note that since $F$ is locally a diffeomorphism, on a neighborhood of each point we can write $V = \Phi _ { * } ^ { - 1 } ( W )$ for some $W \in \mathfrak { X } ( \mathcal { F } ^ { N } )$ . Then we are left with

$$
[ V , ( F ^ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { N } ) _ { X } Y ] = \left[ \Phi _ { * } ^ { - 1 } ( W ) , \Phi _ { * } ^ { - 1 } \left( \hat { \nabla } _ { \Phi _ { * } X } ^ { N } \Phi _ { * } Y \right) \right] = \Phi _ { * } ^ { - 1 } \left[ W , \hat { \nabla } _ { \Phi _ { * } X } ^ { N } \Phi _ { * } Y \right] ,
$$

which is vertical because ${ \hat { \nabla } } ^ { N }$ is a transverse affine connection and $\Phi _ { * }$ stablishes a one-to-one correspondence between vertical vectors.

In the converse direction, if now $( M , \mathcal { F } ^ { M } )$ is given a transverse affine connection ${ \hat { \nabla } } ^ { M }$ , the necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of the pushforward via $F$ is that $F ^ { \prime }$ is oneto-one, (that is, a full diffeomorphism). When this is the case, we can set the pushforward $( F _ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { M } ) _ { X } Y = W$ , for $X , Y \in \mathfrak { X } ( N )$ , where $W$ is constructed as: given $q \in N$ , let $\boldsymbol { u }$ be any neighborhood of $p = F ^ { - 1 } ( q )$ for which $\Phi : = F | _ { \mathcal { U } }$ is a diffeomorphism. Put $W ( q ) : =$ $d \Phi _ { p } \left( \hat { \nabla } _ { \Phi ^ { * } X } \Phi ^ { * } Y \right) _ { \mathit { t } }$ . As before, since vertical vectors in $T M$ and in $T N$ are in bijection, we obtain that $F _ { * } \hat { \nabla } ^ { M }$ is a transverse affine connection with partner connection given by $F _ { * } \omega ^ { M }$ .

The next important consistency check arises by considering semi-Riemannian foliations. We show that any one such gives rise to a unique transverse affine structure — a result that works as an analogue of the fundamental theorem of semi-Riemannian geometry.

Theorem 3.16. Let $g _ { \intercal }$ be a transverse semi-Riemannian metric on $( M , { \mathcal { F } } )$ . There exists a unique transverse affine structure $[ \overline { { \nabla } } ]$ on $( M , { \mathcal { F } } )$ such that, for any $\hat { \nabla } \in [ \overline { { \nabla } } ]$

(i) the torsion tensor $\operatorname { T o r } ( \hat { \nabla } )$ takes values in $\Gamma ( T { \mathcal { F } } )$ , and (ii) $X g _ { \mathsf { T } } ( Y , Z ) = g _ { \mathsf { T } } ( { \hat { \nabla } } _ { X } Y , Z ) + g _ { \mathsf { T } } ( Y , { \hat { \nabla } } _ { X } Z ) , \forall X , Y , Z \in { \mathfrak { X } } ( M )$ .