Throughout we assume the Riemann Hypothesis, in the strong form that the nontrivial zeros are also simple. We also need to assume the following:

Hypothesis D. The level curves $\mathrm { R e } ( \eta ( s ) ) = 0$ are differentiable. This is automatic except at isolated points where $\eta ^ { \prime } ( s ) = 0 ,$ , so we are really assuming that when $\eta ^ { \prime } ( s ) = 0 ,$ $\arg ( \eta ( s ) ) \neq \pm \pi / 2$ . This prevents the level curves from branching. Hypothesis $_ \mathrm { D }$ is plausible because $\pm \pi / 2$ are only two points on the unit circle, while the zeros of $\eta ^ { \prime } ( s )$ form a countable set.

Here’s a summary of the sections of the paper:

$\ S 1$ Classification of the zeros of $\zeta ( s )$ and $\zeta ^ { \prime } ( s )$ into different types by means of the level curves, and results on the asymptotics of the types.   
§2 Computation and classification of $1 0 ^ { 6 }$ zeros of $\zeta ^ { \prime } ( s )$ near $T =$ 1010.   
§3 Two lemmas.   
$\ S 4$ A closer look at the type 2 zeros, and the curvature of the level curve.   
$\ S 5$ A canonical bijection between the complex zeros $\rho ^ { \prime }$ of $\zeta ^ { \prime } ( s )$ , and the complex zeros $\rho ^ { \prime \prime }$ of $\zeta ^ { \prime \prime } ( s )$ .   
§6 Adaptation of a theorem of Marden, and the location of $\rho ^ { \prime \prime }$ relative to $\rho ^ { \prime }$ .   
$\ S 7$ Curvature of the level curve at $\rho ^ { \prime }$ in terms of all the other zeros $\lambda ^ { \prime } \neq \rho ^ { \prime }$ .   
§8 Appendix: With $p _ { A } ( z )$ the characteristic polynomial of a unitary matrix $A _ { \scriptscriptstyle { \it \perp } }$ , we give a classification of the zeros of $p _ { A } ( z )$ and $p _ { A } ^ { \prime } ( z )$ analogous to that in $\ S 1$ .

# 1. CLASSIFICATION OF ZEROS

Proposition 1. With the usual indexing $\gamma _ { 1 } < \gamma _ { 2 } < . . .$ of the imaginary parts of the zeros of $\zeta ( s )$ , every odd indexed zero lies on a contour $I m ( \eta ( s ) ) < 0$ . Every even indexed zero lies on a contour $I m ( \eta ( s ) ) > 0$ .

Proof. This follows from Lemma 2 below, which says that as $t$ increases, the argument of $\eta ( 1 / 2 + i t )$ decreases by exactly $\pi$ between