of system (29) we can see that  $e_n$  is a real and positive root of the polynomial

$$Q(s) := \alpha s^{m+1} + \alpha s - 1,\tag{30}$$

and, in view of Descartes' rule of signs, there is a unique such  $e_n$ . Then

$$e_j = \left(\prod_{k \ge j+1} \alpha_k\right) e_n, \text{ for all } j \in [n-1],\tag{31}$$

and hence  $e \in \text{int}(\mathcal{B}_G)$  is unique.

Several studies (see e.g. Sanchez  $(2009b)$  and the references therein) derived conditions guaranteeing that the equilibrium  $e \in \text{int}(\mathcal{B}_G)$  is globally asymptotically stable. Tyson (1975) analyzed the special case of (29) with  $n = 3$ . He noted that if e is locally asymptotically stable, then one may expect that all solutions converge to  $e$ , and proved that system (29) admits a periodic solution whenever e is unstable. For  $n=3$ , the model can also be studied using the theory of competitive dynamical systems (Smith, 1995). The case  $n=3$  has also been analyzed using the theory of Hopf bifurcations (Woller et al., 2014). For a general  $n$ , the analysis using Hopf bifurcations becomes highly non-trivial and results exist only for special cases, e. g. under the additional assumption that all the  $\alpha_i$ 's are equal, see Invernizzi and Treu (1991). Hastings et al. (1977) studied the general  $n$ -dimensional case and proved that, if the Jacobian of the vector field at the equilibrium has no repeated eigenvalues and at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part, then the system admits a non-trivial periodic orbit; the proof relies on the Brouwer fixed point theorem.

Our Theorem 2 allows us to prove the following result.

**Corollary 3** Consider the n-dimensional Goodwin model (29) with  $n \geq 3$ , and let e denote the unique equilibrium in int  $(\mathcal{B}_G)$ . Let  $J:\mathbb{R}^n_{\geq 0}\to\mathbb{R}^{n\times n}$  denote the Jacobian of the vector field of the Goodwin model. Suppose that  $J(e)$  has at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part. Then, for any initial condition  $a \in \mathbb{R}^n_{\geq 0} \setminus \{e\}$  such that  $s^-(a-e) \leq 1$ , the solution  $x(t,a)$  of (29) converges to a (non-trivial) periodic orbit as  $t \to \infty$ .

## PROOF.

The Jacobian of  $(29)$ 

$$J(x) = \begin{bmatrix} -\alpha_1 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0 & -\frac{mx_n^{m-1}}{(1+x_n^m)^2} \\ 1 & -\alpha_2 & 0 & \dots & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & -\alpha_3 & \dots & 0 & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & -\alpha_{n-1} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 1 & -\alpha_n \end{bmatrix}$$

has the sign pattern  $\bar{A}_2$  in (3) for all  $x \in \mathbb{R}_{>0}^n$ , hence the system is 2-cooperative on  $\mathbb{R}_{>0}^n$ . We