Repeatedly applying the same trick from right to left we obtain that

$$Y_1 \vee (\cdots (Y_{n-1} \vee Y_n)) = q_2^n(x, y_1[1], \ldots, y_n[1]).$$

Proceeding similarly for every component of  $(\star)$ , we get that

$$q_{m}^{n}(\varphi(x),\varphi(y_{1}),\ldots,\varphi(y_{n})) = (q_{2}^{n}(x,y_{1}[1],\ldots,y_{n}[1]),\ldots,q_{2}^{n}(x,y_{1}[m],\ldots,y_{n}[m]))$$
  
$$= (q_{m}^{n}(x,y_{1},\ldots,y_{n})[1],\ldots,q_{m}^{n}(x,y_{1},\ldots,y_{n})[m])$$
  
$$= \varphi(q_{m}^{n}(x,y_{1},\ldots,y_{n}))$$

as desired.

As a consequence the following representation theorem holds.

**Corollary 3.12.** Every partition clone  $\mathbf{T}$  is isomorphic to the partition-of-unity clone of the Boolean algebra  $T(2)$ .

## 4. Hypervarieties

We recall the following definitions for an algebra  $\mathbf{A}$ :

- $\bullet$  **A** is *directly indecomposable* if it cannot be expressed as an isomorphic product of two nontrivial  $algebras;$
- $\bullet$  **A** is *subdirectly irreducible* if its lattice of congruences possesses a unique nontrivial minimal element:
- **A** is *simple* if its lattice of congruences is isomorphic of the two-element chain  $\{\Delta < \nabla\}$ .

Stone famously proved that  $2 = \{0, 1\}$  is the unique nontrivial directly indecomposable Boolean algebra. Consequently, 2 is also the only subdirectly irreducible Boolean algebra (and, incidentally, the only simple Boolean algebra). By Theorem 2.1, this implies that every Boolean algebra is isomorphic to a subdirect power of 2. As a consequence, the variety of Boolean algebras is generated by  $2$ .

The first purpose of this section is to lift these considerations to the theory of partition clones. Here the role of the Boolean algebra 2 is played by the clone of projections, which corresponds to 2 in the equivalence of Theorem  $3.11$ .

**Lemma 4.1.** Let  $\mathbf{T}$  be a partition clone. The following are equivalent:

- (1)  $\mathbf{T}$  is simple:
- (2)  $\mathbf{T}$  is subdirectly irreducible;
- (3)  $\mathbf{T}$  is directly indecomposable;
- (4)  $\mathbf{T} \simeq \mathbf{N}$ .

*Proof.* The implications  $(1) \Longrightarrow (2)$  and  $(2) \Longrightarrow (3)$  are standard. (It is easy to see that the argument for single-sorted algebras lifts to the many-sorted case; at any rate, cf.  $[25, \text{Proposition 4.8}])$ . We now prove that  $\neg(4) \implies \neg(3)$  Up to passing to coordinates, we can assume that the clone **T** is the partition-of-unity clone of a Boolean algebra B. Let  $a := (b_1, \ldots, b_n) \in T(n)$ , with a different from  $e_1^n, \ldots, e_n^n$ . This implies that there exists i such that  $b_i \notin \{0,1\}$ . Letting  $c := b_i$ , and consequently having  $\neg c = \bigvee \{a_k : k \neq i\}$ , it is a standard fact regarding Boolean algebras that  $B \simeq B/\theta(c,1) \times B/\theta(c,0)$ , where  $\theta(c,1)$  (resp.  $\theta(c,0)$ ) is the smallest congruence identifying c and 1 (resp. c and 0). To conclude the argument, observe that if  $(b_1,\ldots,b_n) \in T(n)$ , then,  $(b_1, \ldots, b_n, 0, \ldots, 0) \in T(m)$  for all  $m > n$ . Therefore, for each n we have a decomposition of  $T(n)$  in (at least) two factors and **T** is not directly indecomposable. To prove that  $(4) \Longrightarrow (1)$ , assume that  $\mathbf{T} \simeq \mathbf{N}$ , and let  $\theta$  be a congruence of **T** different than  $\Delta$ . Then there is  $n \geq 2$  and  $1 \leq i \neq j \leq n$  such that  $(e_i^n, e_i^n) \in \theta$ . But then for all  $m \in \omega$  and all  $x, y \in T(m)$ 

$$(q_m^n(e_i^n, z_1, \dots, z_n), q_m^n(e_i^n, z_1, \dots, z_n)) \in \theta$$

where  $z_1, \ldots, z_n$  are any elements of  $T(m)$  such that  $z_i = x$  and  $z_j = y$ , so that, in light of (C2),  $(x, y) \in \theta$ , i.e.  $\theta = \nabla$ .  $\Box$ 

 $\Box$