*Proof.* These operators are limit point at both end points  $r = 0$ , and  $r = \infty$ . Indeed, any solution of  $Lf = 0$  or  $L_j f = 0$  is asymptotic to a linear combination of  $r^{\frac{3}{2}}, r^{-\frac{1}{2}}$  as  $r \to 0+$ , so no boundary condition is needed at  $r = 0$ . The other endpoint  $r = \infty$  is standard, see [53, Theorem X.8]. The claim about essential self-adjointness is  $[53, \text{Theorem X.7}]$ . See  $[30, \text{Section 4}]$  for the Bessel operator  $L_0$  and its domain. The Kato-Rellich theorem applies to  $L, L_1, L_2$ , which are relatively bounded perturbations of  $L_0$ , see [17, Section 1.4] (in fact, these operators are perturbations of  $L_0$ by bounded operators). The Weyl criterium, see [54, Theorem XIII.14], implies that  $\text{spec}_{\text{ess}}(L_0) =$  $\operatorname{spec}_{\operatorname{ess}}(L_1) = [0,\infty)$ . If  $\lambda \in \operatorname{spec}(L_1)$  for some  $\lambda < 0$ , then there exists a ground state of negative energy, i.e.,  $L_1\phi = \lambda_0\phi$  for some  $\lambda_0 < 0$  and  $\phi \in \mathcal{D}$  with  $\phi > 0$  (in fact,  $\phi$  is smooth and  $\phi(r) \sim cr^{\frac{3}{2}}$ as  $r \to 0+$  for some constant c). Let  $\chi(r) = 1$  for  $0 \le r \le 1, \chi \in C^{\infty}([0,\infty))$  with compact support, and set  $\chi_b(r) = \chi(r/b)$  with  $b \ge 1$ . Then

$$\langle L_1 \phi, \chi_b(r) r^{\frac{1}{2}} \rho_1 \rangle = \lambda_0 \langle \phi, \chi_b(r) r^{\frac{1}{2}} \rho_1 \rangle$$

Integrating by parts on the left-hand side and sending  $b\to\infty$  now leads to a contradiction because of the vanishing  $L_1(r^{\frac{1}{2}}\rho_1) = 0$ . Hence  $L_1 > 0$  as stated (note that  $L_1$  cannot have a zero energy eigenfunction because the unique 0-energy solution is not in  $X_0$ ). Pure a.c. spectrum is a consequence of the construction of the Weyl, Titchmarsh  $m$ -function for these operators, see [30,40].

The essential spectrum of  $L_2$  follows from the Weyl criterium as before. Since  $L_2 = L_1 + 2\rho_1^2 > 0$ , we conclude that the discrete spectrum of  $L_2$  – if it exists – is strictly positive.  $\Box$ 

**Remark 2.3.** The exact value of  $c_0 > 0$  is not known, but the approximate value  $c_0 \approx 1.3326$  is obtained in [51] via a numerically assisted argument. Moreover, [51] shows that  $L_2$  has infinitely many eigenvalues in  $(c_0, 2)$  and that 2 is a resonance.

Next, we determine the spectrum of  $i\mathcal{L}$  and define the evolution  $e^{t\mathcal{L}}$  using the Hille-Yosida theorem. As we do not have a selfadjoint reference operator available as required for the standard version of Weyl's theorem as in [54, Theorem XIII.14], we need to proceed differently. To this end we first obtain a proper understanding of the resolvent  $(i\mathcal{L}_0-z)^{-1}$  of the free operator

$$\mathcal{L}_0 := \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -\partial_r^2 + \frac{3}{4r^2} \\ -(-\partial_r^2 + \frac{3}{4r^2} + 2) & 0 \end{bmatrix}.$$

Let  $\tilde{p}_{+}(\zeta)$  denote the modified Hankel function

$$\tilde{p}_+(\zeta) := \sqrt{\zeta} H_1^{(1)}(\zeta) = \sqrt{\zeta} \big( J_1(\zeta) + i Y_1(\zeta) \big),$$

and let  $\tilde{q}_{+}(\zeta)$  denote the modified Bessel function

$$\tilde{q}_+(\zeta) := \sqrt{\zeta} J_1(\zeta).$$

Here  $H_1^{(1)}$ ,  $J_1$ , and  $Y_1$  denote the order one Hankel function, Bessel function of the first kind, and Bessel function of the second kind respectively.  $\tilde{p}_+$  and  $\tilde{q}_+$  satisfy the ODE

$$-\frac{\mathrm{d}^2}{\mathrm{d}\zeta^2}\tilde{p}_+(\zeta) + \frac{3}{4\zeta^2}\tilde{p}_+(\zeta) = \tilde{p}_+(\zeta), \qquad -\frac{\mathrm{d}^2}{\mathrm{d}\zeta^2}\tilde{q}_+(\zeta) + \frac{3}{4\zeta^2}\tilde{q}_+(\zeta) = \tilde{q}_+(\zeta).$$

Then by direct inspection, the vectors

$$\tilde{\Psi}_{1}(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik_{1}(z)^{2}}{z} \tilde{p}_{+}(k_{1}(z)r) \\ \tilde{p}_{+}(k_{1}(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \quad \tilde{\Psi}_{2}(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik_{2}(z)^{2}}{z} \tilde{p}_{+}(k_{2}(z)r) \\ \tilde{p}_{+}(k_{2}(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \\
\tilde{\Psi}_{3}(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik_{1}(z)^{2}}{z} \tilde{q}_{+}(k_{1}(z)r) \\ \tilde{q}_{+}(k_{1}(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \quad \tilde{\Psi}_{4}(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik_{2}(z)^{2}}{z} \tilde{q}_{+}(k_{2}(z)r) \\ \tilde{q}_{+}(k_{2}(z)r) \end{bmatrix},$$