**Proposition 5.1.** Let  $(M,\omega)$  be a closed symplectic manifold. Assume that Shelukhin's quasimorphism  $\mathfrak{S}_M$  on  $\text{Ham}^c(M,\omega)$  is not extendable to  $\text{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega)$ . Then  $R_{0} \in \text{H}^{2}(\text{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega))$  is non-zero. In particular, the Reznikov class  $R \in H^2(\text{Symp}^c(M,\omega))$  is non-zero.

Before proving the proposition, we discuss the vanishing of the Reznikov class in a more general setting. Let  $M$  be a closed symplectic manifold. Let  $\widetilde{G}$  be a subgroup of  $\mathrm{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega)$  which contains  $\mathrm{Ham}^{c}(M,\omega)$  and set  $G = p(\widetilde{G})$ , where  $p: \text{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega) \to \text{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega)$  is the universal covering map. Consider the following commutative diagram:

$$\widetilde{\operatorname{Ham}}^{c}(M,\omega) \xrightarrow{i_{0}} \widetilde{G} \xrightarrow{i_{1}} \widetilde{\operatorname{Symp}}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega)$$

$$\downarrow^{p} \qquad \qquad \downarrow^{p}$$

$$\operatorname{Ham}^{c}(M,\omega) \xrightarrow{i_{0}} G \xrightarrow{i_{1}} \operatorname{Symp}_{0}^{c}(M,\omega).$$

Here  $\widetilde{i_0}, \widetilde{i_1}, i_0$  and  $i_1$  are the inclusions.

**Lemma 5.2.** The following are equivalent.

- (1)  $i_1^*R_0 \in H^2(G)$  is zero.
- (2) There exists  $\phi \in \mathcal{Q}(G)$  such that  $\widetilde{i_0}^* p^* \phi = \mathfrak{S}_M$ .

*Proof.* To prove that (1) implies (2), we assume that  $i_1^* R_0 = 0$ . Recall that  $b_J$  is a cocycle representing the Reznikov class. Then there exists  $u \in C^1(G)$ such that  $i_1^*b_J = \delta u$ . Since  $b_J$  is a bounded cocycle, u is a quasimorphism. Recall from (2.4) that  $-\delta\nu_J = p^* i_0^* i_1^* b_J$ . Hence we have

$$-\delta\nu_J = p^* i_0^* \delta u = \delta(p^* i_0^* u) = \delta(\widetilde{i_0}^* p^* u).$$

This implies that  $\nu_J + \widetilde{i_0}^* p^* u \colon \widetilde{\text{Ham}^c}(M,\omega) \to \mathbb{R}$  is a homomorphism. Because  $\text{Ham}^c(M,\omega)$  is perfect ([Ban78]), we have  $\nu_J = -\tilde{i_0}^* p^* u$ . Let  $\phi$  be the homogenization of  $-u$ . Then we have  $\mathfrak{S}_M = \widetilde{i_0}^* p^* \phi$ .

To prove that (2) implies (1), we assume (2) and take  $\phi \in Q(G)$  satisfying  $\widetilde{i_0}^* p^* \phi = \mathfrak{S}_M$ . Since  $\mathfrak{S}_M$  is the homogenization of  $\nu_J$ , there exists a bounded function  $v: \text{Ham}^c(M,\omega) \to \mathbb{R}$  such that  $\mathfrak{S}_M = \nu_J + v$ . Then we have

$$-\delta\nu_J = -\delta(\mathfrak{S}_M - v) = \delta v - \delta\widetilde{i_0}^* p^* \phi = \delta v - p^* i_0^* \delta\phi.$$

Together with  $-\delta\nu_J = p^* i_0^* i_1^* b_J$ , we have

$$p^*i_0^*(i_1^*b_J + \delta\phi) = \delta v$$

Note that  $i_1^*b_J + \delta\phi$  is a bounded cocycle on G. Since v is a bounded function, the second bounded cohomology class  $p^*i_0^*[i_1^*b_J + \delta\phi]$  of  $\text{Ham}^c(M,\omega)$  is zero. Since  $G/\text{Ham}^c(M,\omega)$  is abelian, the bounded cohomology  $\text{H}^2_b(G/\text{Ham}^c(M,\omega))$ is zero. In particular, the map  $i_0^* \colon \mathrm{H}^2_b(G) \to \mathrm{H}^2_b(\mathrm{Ham}^c(M,\omega))$  is injective by  $(2.2)$ . Moreover, since  $p: \text{Ham}^c(M,\omega) \to \text{Ham}^c(M,\omega)$  is surjective, the map