**Proposition 3.6** ([15, Corollary 1.4]). Consider the assumption in Theorem 3.5. Then,  $\text{Sel}_{n^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K_{\infty})$ has no proper  $\Lambda$ -submodules with finite index.

By the above proposition and a property of the Fitting ideal (cf. [10, Lemma  $A.7$ ]), we have

$$\mathrm{Fitt}_{\Lambda} \left( \mathrm{Sel}_{p^{\infty}}^{\pm} (E/K_{\infty})^{\vee} \right) = \mathrm{char}_{\Lambda} \left( \mathrm{Sel}_{p^{\infty}}^{\pm} (E/K_{\infty})^{\vee} \right). \tag{3.1}$$

Last, we prove the control theorem for  $\text{Sel}_{p^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K_{\infty})$  in our situation by the similar arguments to [1]. We prepare the following lemma for the proof. Let w be a prime of  $K_{\infty}$  above p.

**Lemma 3.7.** The natural map  $f_n^{\pm}: H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p}, E[p^{\infty}]) \longrightarrow H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_n^{\pm}]$  is injective, and the cokernel of  $f_n^{\pm}$  is a finite group for any positive integer n. Here, we define  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w},E[p^{\infty}]) := \varinjlim H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p},E[p^{\infty}]).$ 

*Proof.* Note that we have  $E[p^{\infty}]^{G_{K_{\infty,p}}} = 0$  by [15, Proposition 3.2]. By Inflation-Restriction exact sequence, we see that the canonical map

$$f_n: H^1(K_{n,p}, E[p^\infty]) \longrightarrow H^1(K_{\infty,p}, E[p^\infty])^{\mathrm{Gal}(K_{\infty,p}/F_{n,p})} = H^1(K_{\infty,p}, E[p^\infty])[\omega_n]$$

is injective. Since the map  $f_n^{\pm}$  is the restriction of  $f_n$  to  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p}, E[p^{\infty}]), f_n^{\pm}$  is also injective.

For the claim for Coker  $f_n^{\pm}$ , it suffices to show that both the  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ -coranks of  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p}, E[p^{\infty}])$ <br>and  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_n^{\pm}]$  are same. Since we have  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}])^{\vee} \simeq \Lambda^2$  as  $\Lambda$ -mod the Rubin conjecture, we see that

$$H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w},E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_n^{\pm}]^{\vee} \simeq (H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w},E[p^{\infty}]))^{\vee}/\omega_n^{\pm}(H^1_{\pm}(K_{\infty,w},E[p^{\infty}]))^{\vee}$$
$$\simeq \Lambda^2/\omega_n^{\pm}\Lambda^2.$$

On the other hand, we have  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p}, E[p^{\infty}]) = \widehat{E}(K_{n,p})^{\pm} \otimes (\mathbb{Q}_p/\mathbb{Z}_p)$  by the definition. Thus, we see that  $H^1_{\pm}(K_{n,p}, E[p^{\infty}])^{\vee} \simeq \Lambda_n^2/\omega_n^{\pm} \Lambda_n^2$  by Proposition 3.4. Therefore, the  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ -rank o  $H^1_+(K_{n,p},E[p^\infty])$  and  $H^1_+(K_{\infty,w},E[p^\infty])[\omega_n^\pm]$  are the same.

**Proposition 3.8.** Consider the assumption in Theorem 3.5. Then, the canonical homomorphism  $\mathrm{Sel}_{n^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K_{\infty})[\omega_{n}^{\pm}] \longrightarrow \mathrm{Sel}_{n^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K_{n})[\omega_{n}^{\pm}]$ 

is injective, and the order of the cokernel is finite for any  $n$ .

*Proof.* We take the finite subset  $\Sigma = \{p\} \cup \{\text{bad primes of } E\}$ . Then, we have the following commutative diagram:

$$0 \longrightarrow \mathrm{Sel}_{p}^{\pm}(E/K_{n})[\omega_{n}^{\pm}] \longrightarrow H^{1}(K_{\Sigma}/K_{n}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_{n}^{\pm}] \xrightarrow{a} \prod_{\substack{v_{n}|v\\v\in\Sigma}} \frac{H^{1}(K_{n,v_{n}}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_{n}^{\pm}]}{H_{\pm}^{1}(K_{n,v_{n}}, E[p^{\infty}])},$$

$$0 \longrightarrow \mathrm{Sel}_{p}^{\pm}(E/K_{\infty})[\omega_{n}^{\pm}] \longrightarrow H^{1}(K_{\Sigma}/K_{\infty}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_{n}^{\pm}] \longrightarrow \prod_{\substack{v_{\infty}|v\\v\in\Sigma}} \frac{H^{1}(K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_{n}^{\pm}]}{H_{\pm}^{1}(K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_{n}^{\pm}]}.$$

Since we have  $E[p^{\infty}]^{G_{K_{\infty}}} = 0$ , the map  $H^1(K_{\Sigma}/K_n, E[p^{\infty}]) \longrightarrow H^1(K_{\Sigma}/K_{\infty}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega_n]$  induced by the restriction map is isomorphism by the Inflation-Restriction exact sequence. Therefore,  $h_n^{\pm}$  is also isomorphism. By the snake lemma,  $s_n^{\pm}$  is injective, and it suffices to calculate the kernel of  $g_n^{\pm}$ .

We first consider the case  $v \in \Sigma \setminus \{p\}$ . Then,  $K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}/K_{n,v_n}$  is the trivial extension or the unramified  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ -extension. If the extension  $K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}/K_{n,v_n}$  is trivial, then it is clear that  $\operatorname{Ker} g_{n,v_n}^{\pm} =$ 0. Assume that  $K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}/K_{n,v_n}$  is the unramified  $\mathbb{Z}_p$ -extension. Write  $B_{v_{\infty}} := E[p^{\infty}]^{G_{K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}}}$ . We consider the exact sequence

$$0 \longrightarrow H^{1}(K_{\infty,v_{\infty}}/K_{n,v_{n}},B_{v_{\infty}}) \longrightarrow H^{1}(K_{n,v_{n}},E[p^{\infty}]) \longrightarrow H^{1}(K_{\infty,v_{\infty}},E[p^{\infty}])$$