$\sigma(i') = 1 \text{ for some } i' \in J, \text{ then } \Xi_1(b_{i'}^{\sigma(i')}) = \Xi_1(\sim b_{i'}) = 0, \text{ so } \Xi\left(g(\sigma) \land \bigwedge_{i \in J} b_i^{\sigma(i)}\right) = 0. \text{ In}$ conclusion,  $\Xi(a) = \Xi_0(q(\sigma^0))$ , where  $\sigma^0$  is the constant map onto 0.  $\square_{3.15}$ 

We wonder whether the results of this section are valid when restricting to fams with the uap. These are not in general. For example, let  $a \subseteq \omega$  be the set of even numbers,  $\mathscr{B} := \mathcal{P}(\omega)$ , let  $\mathscr{B}_0$  be the field of sets over  $\omega$  generated by a and let  $F \subseteq \mathcal{P}(\omega)$  be the filter of subsets of  $\omega$  containing  $\{0,1\}$ . Let  $\Xi_0$  be the (unique) probability measure on  $\mathscr{B}$  such that  $\Xi(a) = \frac{2}{3}$  (which is clearly uniformly supported). By Theorem 3.15, there is a unique probability fam  $\Xi$  on  $\langle \mathscr{B}_0 \cup F \rangle$  extending  $\Xi_0$  such that  $\Xi(b) = 1$  for all  $b \in F$ , in particular,  $\Xi(\{0,1\}) = 1$ . Then,  $\Xi(\{0\}) = \Xi(a \cap \{0,1\}) = \Xi_0(a) = \frac{2}{3}$  and, naturally,  $\Xi(\{1\}) = \frac{1}{3}$ . However,  $\Xi$  cannot have the uap because no singleton can have measure  $\frac{2}{3}$  under a probability fam with the uap (by Theorem 2.18). This also shows that Theorem 3.8 is not valid in general when restricting to the uap: both  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_F$ are uniformly supported, but any common extension extends  $\Xi$  and thus cannot have the uap.

We can validate Theorem  $3.15$  to fams with the uap under further conditions.

**Theorem 3.16.** In Theorem 3.15, assume that  $\mathscr{B} = \mathcal{P}(X)$  and that  $\mathscr{B}_0$  contains all the finite subsets of X. If  $\Xi_0$  has the uap, then so does  $\Xi$ . Likewise for "uniformly supported".

*Proof.* If all finite sets have  $\Xi_0$ -measure zero, then the same is true for  $\Xi$ . So assume that  $\Xi_0$  is uniformly supported with support P. Since  $\mathscr{B}_0$  contains all finite sets, all finite sets in  $P$  with positive measure must be singletons (by minimality). It is not hard to show that P is a support of  $\Xi$ , so  $\Xi$  is uniformly supported.  $\sqcup_{3.16}$ 

Similarly, we can validate the extension results when adding one set to the subalgebra.

**Lemma 3.17.** In the context of Lemma 3.11, assume that  $\mathcal{B} = \mathcal{P}(X)$  and that  $\mathscr{C}$  contains all the singletons. Then, if  $\Xi$  has the uap, then  $\Xi'$  can be found with the uap. As a consequence,  $\Xi$  can be extended to a fam into K with the uap on the whole  $\mathcal{P}(X)$ .

Here, "uap" can be replaced by "uniformly supported", even more, extensions of  $\Xi$  can be found with the same support.

*Proof.* The result is trivial when all singletons have  $\Xi$ -measure zero. So assume that  $\Xi$  is uniformly supported. The argument in the proof of Lemma 3.11, when replacing  $A$  by a support of  $\Xi$ , allows to find a uniformly supported  $\Xi'$  with the same support as  $\Xi$ . The rest follows by Zorn's Lemma.  $\square$ 3 17

We ask whether (iii)  $\Rightarrow$  (i) of Theorem 3.8 is valid when  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_1$  have the uap for finding  $\Xi$  with the uap, under the condition that both  $\mathscr{B}_0$  and  $\mathscr{B}_1$  contain all singletons. If, say,  $\Xi_0$  is free then  $\Xi_1$  and  $\Xi$  must be free, but we do not know how to obtain an uniformly supported  $\Xi$  when  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_1$  are uniformly supported.

**Question 3.18.** Assume that  $\mathscr{B}_0$  and  $\mathscr{B}_1$  are fields of sets over X, containing all the singletons, and  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_1$  are uniformly supported fams with the uap on  $\mathscr{B}_0$  and  $\mathscr{B}_1$ , respectively. Assume that  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_1$  are compatible (in the sense of Theorem 3.8 (iii)). Is there a uniformly supported fam that extends both  $\Xi_0$  and  $\Xi_1$ ?

A strategy to solve this problem may suggest a short proof of Theorem  $3.8$ .