particular with semisimple isometry group  $G$ . The holonomy group at a point  $p$  coincides with the isotropy K of the factor Y (see [2, Proposition 10.79]). On the other hand, the fixed space of the K-action at p is exactly  $X^L$ . Therefore, the stabilizer of p preserves the factor  $X^L$ . The rest follows similarly as above.  $\Box$ 

## 3. INJECTIVITY OF THE DEVELOPING MAP

In this section we assume that  $X = X^L \times Y$  is a simply connected Lorentz symmetric space whose Lorentz factor  $X^L = X_{\kappa}$  is the universal model of constant curvature  $\kappa$ . A compact manifold M locally isometric to X is an  $(\text{Isom}(X), X)$ -manifold in the sense of  $(G, X)$ -structures (see [15, 38]). That is, we have a local diffeomorphism  $D: M \to X$  and a representation  $\rho: \pi_1(M) \to \text{Isom}(X)$  satisfying the equivariance property  $D\gamma = \rho(\gamma)D$  for all  $\gamma \in \pi_1(M)$ . The local diffeomorphism D is called the *developing map* and  $\rho$  is called the *holonomy representation*.

3.1. **Natural foliations.** Proposition 2.5 implies that a compact manifold  $M$  locally isometric to  $X = X^L \times Y$  inherits two transverse foliations  $\mathcal{F}_1$  and  $\mathcal{F}_2$  where the leaves of  $\mathcal{F}_1$  are Lorentz of constant curvature locally modeled on  $X_{\kappa}$  and the leaves of  $\mathcal{F}_2$  are Riemannian modeled on Y. The same applies to  $\widetilde{M}$ , we have two foliations  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_1$  and  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$ .

**Lemma 3.1.** Let M be a compact manifold locally isometric to X. Each leaf of  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$  is mapped, under the developing map, bijectively and isometrically onto a vertical Riemannian fiber  $\{x_0\} \times Y$ .

*Proof.* The compactness of the manifold M implies that each leaf of the foliation  $\mathcal{F}_2$  is complete (with respect to its Riemannian structure locally modeled on Y). Hence each leaf  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$  of the foliation  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$  is also complete. The developing map  $D$ , restricted to  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$ , is a local isometry between  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$  and a corresponding fiber  $\{x_0\} \times Y$ . Since  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$  is complete, then  $D : \widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p) \to$  $\{x_0\} \times Y$  is a covering map. But Y being simply connected implies that  $D: \widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p) \to \{x_0\} \times Y$ is in fact an isometric diffeomorphism.  $\Box$ 

**Corollary 3.2.** The universal cover  $\widetilde{M}$  is mapped, under the developing map, onto  $\Omega \times Y$ where  $\Omega \subset X_{\kappa}$  is an open subset.

3.2. A natural action on  $\widetilde{M}$ . Since each leaf of  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$  is identified canonically under the developing map to  $Y = G/K$ , we obtain a well-defined G-action on  $\widetilde{M}$  for which the developing map is  $G$ -equivariant. Since the developing map is isometric, we have

**Corollary 3.3.** The G-action on  $\widetilde{M}$  is isometric, proper, and with orbits the  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$ -leaves.

3.3. Product structure of the universal cover. We have seen in Corollary 3.2 that  $D(M)$  =  $\Omega \times Y$  where  $\Omega \subset X_{\kappa}$  is an open subset. The subset  $\widehat{\Omega} = D^{-1}(\Omega \times \{y\})$  is a global cross section of the  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$ -foliation. Indeed, consider the map  $\sigma: \widetilde{M} \to Y$  where  $\sigma = \pi \circ D$  and  $\pi: X_\kappa \times Y \to Y$ is the natural projection. We have  $\sigma^{-1}(y) = \widehat{\Omega}$  and, by construction,  $\sigma$  is G-equivariant. Since each leaf  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$  is identified under the map  $\sigma$  with Y, then  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2(p)$  intersects  $\sigma^{-1}(y) = \widehat{\Omega}$  exactly in one point. In other words,  $\widehat{\Omega}$  is a leaf of  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_1$  which is a global cross section of the foliation  $\widetilde{\mathcal{F}}_2$ .

**Corollary 3.4.** The universal cover  $\widetilde{M}$  is globally isometric to  $\widehat{\Omega} \times Y$ .

In particular,  $\widehat{\Omega}$  is a connected and simply connected Lorentz manifold of constant curvature  $\kappa$ . The injectivity of the developing map  $D: M \to X_{\kappa} \times Y$  is then equivalent to the fact that  $\widehat{\Omega}$ isometrically embeds in  $X_{\kappa}$ .

3.4. The injectivity. We have seen in Corollary 3.4 that  $\widetilde{M} = \widehat{\Omega} \times Y$  and  $\pi_1(M) = \Gamma \subset$  $\mathrm{Isom}(\widehat{\Omega}) \times G$  acts freely, properly, and cocompactly on  $\widetilde{M}$  where G is the isometry group of Y. Frances in  $[10, \text{ Sect. 6}]$  considers, among many other things, a similar situation (in fact a more general setting of warped products). He observed [10, Proposition 6.9] that the injectivity result in the works of Carrière and Klingler [7, 24] can be adapted to the product setting. That is,