**Remark 3.15.** Another interesting situation is when we have two foliated manifolds  $(M, \mathcal{F}^M)$ and  $(N, \mathcal{F}^N)$ , and a local diffeomorphism — say, a covering map —  $F: M \to N$  which sends leaves of  $\mathcal{F}^M$  into leaves of  $\mathcal{F}^N$ , and we want to move affine information between them. Note that  $F_*$  maps  $\mathcal{F}^M$ -vertical vectors into  $\mathcal{F}^N$ -vertical vectors, but not necessarily surjectively. It will become clear that it is necessary that only  $\mathcal{F}^M$ -vertical vectors are mapped into  $\mathcal{F}^N$ -vertical vectors. For example, consider  $id: \mathbb{R}^3 \to \mathbb{R}^3$ , where the first  $\mathbb{R}^3$  is foliated by  $T\mathcal{F}^1 = \mathbb{R}\frac{\partial}{\partial y}$  and the second one is foliated by  $T\mathcal{F}^2 = \mathbb{R}\frac{\partial}{\partial x} \oplus \mathbb{R}\frac{\partial}{\partial y}$ . It is clear that *id* is a foliated diffeomorphism. The usual flat connection  $\nabla^{\text{flat}}$  of  $\mathbb{R}^3$  is a transverse affine connection to both foliations, albeit associated with different partner connections  $\omega^1$  and  $\omega^2$  (each of them is just  $\nabla^{\text{flat}}$  restricted to the respective vertical distributions). However,  $id^*\nabla^{\text{flat}} = \nabla^{\text{flat}}$  and  $id^*\omega^2 = \omega^2$ , which does not result in a transverse affine connection in the source foliation.

To achieve our goal, we must require furthermore that  $\mathcal{F}^M$  and  $\mathcal{F}^N$  are of the same dimension, so that vertical vectors on  $TM$  are in one-to-one correspondence with the vertical vectors in TN. Indeed, if  $(N, \mathcal{F}^N)$  is endowed with a transverse affine connection  $\hat{\nabla}^N$ , we can define the *pullback*  $F^*\hat{\nabla}^N$  as follows: for  $X, Y \in \mathfrak{X}(M)$ , we set  $(F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_X Y = Z$ , where Z is given by: For  $p \in M$ , let  $\mathcal{U}$  be any neighborhood of  $p$  for which  $\Phi := F|_{\mathcal{U}}$  is a diffeomorphism onto its (open) image. Then,  $Z(p) := d\Phi_p^{-1} \left( \hat{\nabla}_{\Phi_* X}^N \Phi_* Y \right)_{\Phi(p)}$ . If  $\omega^N$  is the partner connection associated with  $\hat{\nabla}^N$ , then we can check that, for any  $V \in \mathfrak{X}(\mathcal{F}^M)$  and any  $X \in \mathfrak{X}(M)$  we have

$$(F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_X V = (F^*\omega^N)_X V,$$
  
$$(F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_V X = [V, X] + (F^*\omega^N)_X V.$$

As for the holonomy invariance condition, given  $V \in \mathfrak{X}(\mathcal{F}^M)$ , and  $X, Y \in \mathfrak{L}(\mathcal{F}^M)$  we have

$$(\mathcal{L}_V(F^*\hat{\nabla}^N))(X,Y) = [V, (F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_XY] - (F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_{[V,X]}Y - (F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_X[V,Y].$$

Note that the two properties that we already established imply that the two last terms above are vertical. As for the first one, note that since  $F$  is locally a diffeomorphism, on a neighborhood of each point we can write  $V = \Phi_*^{-1}(W)$  for some  $W \in \mathfrak{X}(\mathcal{F}^N)$ . Then we are left with

$$[V, (F^*\hat{\nabla}^N)_XY] = \left[\Phi_*^{-1}(W), \Phi_*^{-1}\left(\hat{\nabla}^N_{\Phi_*X}\Phi_*Y\right)\right] = \Phi_*^{-1}\left[W, \hat{\nabla}^N_{\Phi_*X}\Phi_*Y\right],$$

which is vertical because  $\hat{\nabla}^N$  is a transverse affine connection and  $\Phi_*$  stablishes a one-to-one correspondence between vertical vectors.

In the converse direction, if now  $(M, \mathcal{F}^M)$  is given a transverse affine connection  $\hat{\nabla}^M$ , the necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of the pushforward via  $F$  is that  $F$  is oneto-one, (that is, a full diffeomorphism). When this is the case, we can set the *pushforward*  $(F_*\hat{\nabla}^M)_XY = W$ , for  $X,Y \in \mathfrak{X}(N)$ , where W is constructed as: given  $q \in N$ , let U be any neighborhood of  $p = F^{-1}(q)$  for which  $\Phi \ := \ F|_{\mathcal{U}}$  is a diffeomorphism. Put  $W(q) \ :=$  $d\Phi_p\left(\hat{\nabla}_{\Phi^*X}\Phi^*Y\right)$ . As before, since vertical vectors in  $TM$  and in  $TN$  are in bijection, we obtain that  $F_* \hat{\nabla}^M$  is a transverse affine connection with partner connection given by  $F_* \omega^M$ .

The next important consistency check arises by considering semi-Riemannian foliations. We show that any one such gives rise to a unique transverse affine structure  $-$  a result that works as an analogue of the fundamental theorem of semi-Riemannian geometry.

**Theorem 3.16.** Let  $g_{\mathsf{T}}$  be a transverse semi-Riemannian metric on  $(M, \mathcal{F})$ . There exists a unique transverse affine structure  $[\overline{\nabla}]$  on  $(M,\mathcal{F})$  such that, for any  $\hat{\nabla} \in [\overline{\nabla}]$ 

- (i) the torsion tensor  $\text{Tor}(\nabla)$  takes values in  $\Gamma(T\mathcal{F})$ , and
- $(ii) \ Xg_{\mathsf{T}}(Y,Z) = g_{\mathsf{T}}(\hat{\nabla}_X Y, Z) + g_{\mathsf{T}}(Y, \hat{\nabla}_X Z), \forall X, Y, Z \in \mathfrak{X}(M).$