whose center vertex is  $x$ , by adding an edge  $vx$  and a pendent 4-cycle at vertex  $v$ . In that case, by Proposition 2.6, there is a hop dominating set S of H, such that  $x \in S$  and  $|S| \leq \frac{2(n-4)}{5}$ , which implies that  $S \cup \{v\}$  is a hop dominating set S of G, a contradiction. Thus such a path P exists. Note that  $k \geq 2$ .

## Claim 3.10. $k \in \{2, 3\}$

*Proof.* Suppose that  $k \geq 4$ . Let  $G' = (G - xx_1) + x_1x_4$ . Note that  $x_1x_2x_3x_4v_1$  is a pendent 4-cycle at  $x_4$  in  $G'$ . Note that  $|V(G')| = n$ ,  $|E(G')| = |E(G)|$ , and  $G'$  has more pendent 4-cycles than  $G$ .

Suppose that  $\deg_G(x) \geq 3$ . Then  $\delta(G') \geq 2$  and  $G'$  has no connected component in  $\mathcal{B}$ . There is a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that  $x_4, v, x \in S'$  and  $N_G(x_4) \cap S' \neq \emptyset$  by Proposition 2.7. By the choice of  $G$ ,  $|S'| \leq \frac{2n}{5}$ . Thus  $S'$  is a hop dominating set of  $G$ , which is a contradiction.

Suppose that  $\deg_G(x) = 2$ . Then let H be the connected component of G' containing  $x_4$ . Note that  $|V(H)| \leq n-5$ . There is a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that  $x_4 \in S'$ ,  $N_{G'}(x_4) \cap S' \neq \emptyset$  by Proposition 2.7. If S' contains  $x_1$ , then we replace  $x_1$  with  $x_3$  so that S' does not have  $x_1$ . Then  $S' \cup \{v, x\}$  is a minimum hop dominating set of  $G$ , a contradiction.  $\Box$ 

Let  $G' = G - \{x_1, \ldots, x_{k-1}\}$ . Suppose that  $\deg_G(x) \geq 3$ . Then  $\delta(G') \geq 2$ . If  $G'$  has no connected component in  $\mathcal{B}$ , then take a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that  $v, x \in S'$ by Proposition 2.7, which implies that  $S'$  is a minimum hop dominating set of  $G$ , a contradiction. Thus,  $G'$  has two connected components  $D_1$  and  $D_2$ . We may assume that  $D_1 \notin \mathcal{B}$  and  $D_2 \in \mathcal{B}$ . There is a hop dominating set  $S_1$  of  $D_1$  such that  $v, x \in S_1$  and  $|S_1| \leq \frac{2|V(D_1)|}{5}$  by Proposition 2.7. If  $k = 3$  or  $D_2 \neq C_8$ , then by (3.1), there is a minimum hop dominating set  $S_2$  of  $D_2$  such that  $|S_2| \leq \frac{2|V(D_2)|+2(k-1)}{5}$ . If  $k=2$  and  $D_2=C_8$ , then we take a minimum hop dominating set  $S_2$  of a path  $D_2 - x_2$  such that  $|S_2| = 3 \leq \frac{2|V(D_2)| + 2(k-1)}{5}$ . Note that  $S_1 \cup S_2$  is a hop dominating set of  $G.$  Then

$$|S_1 \cup S_2| \le \frac{2|V(D_1)| + 2|V(D_2)| + 2(k-1)}{5} = \frac{2n}{5},$$

which is a contradiction.

Suppose that  $\deg_G(x) = 2$ . Let H be the connected component containing  $x_k$ . Then  $|V(H)| \leq$  $n-6$ . If  $H \neq C_8$ , then for a minimum hop dominating set S of H, we have  $|S| \leq \frac{2(n-6)+2}{5}$  by (3.1), and so  $S \cup \{v, x\}$  is a hop dominating set of G whose size is at most  $\frac{2n}{5}$ , a contradiction. Thus  $H = C_8$ . Then G is one of the last two graphs in Figure 6, which shows that  $\gamma_h(G) \leq \frac{2n}{5}$ . This completes the proof of our main theorem.

## An open problem $\mathbf{4}$

It would be a natural extension to consider giving a sharp upper bound on the hop domination number for a graph with a large girth. So we propose the following open problem.