and then observing that the canonical function of Y writes as  $k(x) = \lambda e^{Ax - B|x|}$ , implying  $\tau_{+}^{-A} = \tau_{-}^{A} = \lambda \delta_{B}$ . The Dirac integration to which (5.25) reduces, produces

$$k_{\rho}(x) = \lambda e^{(A^2 - B^2)x/2} = \lambda e^{-\theta + \theta - x/2}.$$
(5.27)

Therefore, the bilateral gamma process can be represented in law as  $Y_t = W_{T_t} + (\theta_- - \theta_+)t/2$ where  $\mathcal{L}(T_1) \sim \Gamma(\lambda, \theta_+\theta_-/2)$ . This has been known and used at least since Madan et al. (1998).

**Example 10.** Subordinated representation of  $\text{CTS}_{\alpha}$  processes. Madan and Yor (2008) through a series of propositions covering a substantial part of the article, explain how to represent a  $\text{CTS}_{\alpha}(\mathbb{R})$  process as a subordinated Brownian motion with drift. Based on the discussion so far, the main Proposition 2 therein trivialize. First of all notice that the assumptions in Theorem 6 are met also in the case of  $\text{CTS}_{\alpha}(\mathbb{R})$  processes with symmetric spherical part. Namely, assuming  $\lambda_{+} = \lambda_{-}$  and letting again  $A = (\theta_{-} - \theta_{+})/2$ ,  $B = (\theta_{-} + \theta_{-})/2$ , leads to  $k(x) =$  $x^{-\alpha}e^{Ax-B|x|}$ , so that using the Thorin measure found in Subsection 4.3 we deduce the required density relationship  $\tau_{+}^{-A}(y) = \tau_{-}^{A}(y) = \lambda(y - B)^{\alpha - 1} (\Gamma(\alpha))^{-1} \mathbb{1}_{\{y \ge B\}}.$  It then follows from Corollary 6, and with the substitution  $w = (s - B)\sqrt{x}$ , that

$$k_{\rho}(x) = \lambda \frac{e^{xA^{2}/2}}{\Gamma(\alpha)} \int_{B}^{\infty} e^{-\frac{s^{2}x}{2}} (s - B)^{\alpha - 1} ds = \lambda \frac{e^{(A^{2} - B^{2})x/2}}{\Gamma(\alpha)x^{\alpha/2}} \int_{0}^{\infty} e^{-\frac{w^{2}}{2} - wB\sqrt{x}} w^{\alpha - 1} dw$$
$$= \lambda \frac{e^{-\theta_{+} - x/2}}{x^{\alpha/2}} H_{-\alpha} \left(\frac{\theta_{+} + \theta_{-}}{2}\sqrt{x}\right) \tag{5.28}$$

where  $H_a$ ,  $a < 0$ , is the Hermite function, given by

$$H_a(z) = \frac{1}{\Gamma(-a)} \int_0^\infty e^{-x^2/2 - xz} x^{-a-1} dx, \qquad z > 0.$$
 (5.29)

The corresponding Lévy density coincides with that determined in Madan and Yor (2008), Proposition  $2$ .

**Example 11.** Subordinated representation of generalized-z processes. Let  $\mu \in \text{GZD}_G(\mathbb{R})$  with Lévy measure of the form (4.20), i.e.  $c(\pm 1) = c_{\pm} > 0$ ,  $\sigma(\pm) = \sigma > 0$  and  $\lambda(du) = \lambda(\delta_1(du) + \delta_1(du))$  $\delta_{-1}(du), \ \lambda > 0.$  We can rewrite again  $k(x) = e^{Ax/\sigma - B|x|/\sigma}/(1 - e^{-|x|/\sigma}), \ A = (c_{-} - c_{+})/2,$  $B = (c_{-} + c_{+})/2$  so we are under the assumption of Theorem 6. Based on (4.22) and (5.25), integrating term by term the series results in

$$k_{\rho}(x) = \lambda e^{\frac{A^{2}x}{2\sigma^{2}}} \sum_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{(k+B)^{2}}{2\sigma^{2}}\right) = \lambda \sum_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{k^{2} + 2Bk + B^{2} - A^{2}}{2\sigma^{2}}\right)$$
$$= \lambda \sum_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{(k+c_{+})(k+c_{-})}{2\sigma^{2}}\right). \tag{5.30}$$

The subordinator is then of the form of an infinite GGC convolution of gamma processes  $G^k = (G^k_t)_{t \ge 0}, \ k \ge 0, \ \mathcal{L}(G^k_1) \sim \Gamma\left(\lambda, \frac{(k+c_+)(k+c_-)}{2\sigma^2}\right)$  whose limit in law is not otherwise known.