$quantized spectrum:$ 

$$\hat{S}_0(\mathbf{k}) = \tau^z \qquad \hat{Q}_0 = \sum_{\mathbf{k}} d_{\mathbf{k}}^\dagger \hat{S}_0(\mathbf{k}) d_{\mathbf{k}}$$
$$\hat{S}_1(\mathbf{k}) = \cos k_z \tau^z + \sin k_z \tau^x \qquad \hat{Q}_1 = \sum_{\mathbf{k}} d_{\mathbf{k}}^\dagger \hat{S}_1(\mathbf{k}) d_{\mathbf{k}}.$$
(10)

The first is the usual  $U(1)$  symmetry, while the second is composed of Kitaev Majorana chains [16] along z-axis wires. These generators do not commute, instead they generate an infinite-dimensional Lie algebra known as the Onsager algebra, introduced in [17]. This algebra has recently appeared in the study of the  $1+1D$  chiral anomaly on the lattice  $[18, 19]$ , and offers another route to defining exact symmetries on the lattice giving anomalous symmetries in the  $\text{IR}$ .

We can actually write a Hamiltonian that has this symmetry and  $two$  Weyl nodes, which in the BdG formalism above (using the  $d_{\mathbf{k}}^{\dagger}$  basis) is

$$h_{\text{double Weyl}}^{\text{BdG}}(\mathbf{k}) = \mathbb{1}_{\tau} \otimes \frac{1}{2} \left[ \sin k_x \sigma^x + \sin k_y \sigma^z + \left[ \cos k_z - \cos K + m(\mathbf{k}) \right] \sigma^y \right] , \tag{11}$$

where the identity in the  $\tau$  basis ensures it has both  $U(1)$ symmetries, K is a parameter, and  $m(\mathbf{k})$  is the same as in (3). This model is a magnetic Weyl semimetal model that has the two Weyl nodes at  $\mathbf{k} = \pm \mathbf{K}$  where  $\mathbf{K} = (0, 0, K)$ .

Let's linearize around the Weyl nodes. We get

$$h_l^{\text{BdG}} = \mathbb{1}_{\tau} \otimes \frac{1}{2} (k_x \sigma^x + k_y \sigma^z - \sin K \ k_z \sigma^y). \tag{12}$$

This shows that for  $K \neq 0, \pi$ , the two Weyl nodes have an opposite handedness. To figure out the effect of  $\hat{S}_1(\mathbf{k})$ at low energy, we can also linearize it, and obtain

$$\hat{S}_{1,K}(\mathbf{k}) = \cos K \ \tau^z + \sin K \ \tau^x. \tag{13}$$

The important feature for  $K \neq 0, \pi$  is that the second term is non-zero.

Thus, together with  $\hat{S}_0 = \tau^z$ , these generate an  $su(2)$ algebra acting on the low energy theory. Note that  $\tau^x$ acts by exchanging particles at  $\mathbf{K}$  with holes at  $-\mathbf{K}$ . Thus, it is convenient to apply a charge conjugation the right-handed Weyl fermion, to give a low energy theory in terms of two left-handed Weyl fermions, now with  $op$ *posite* charge w.r.t.  $\tau^z$  rotations.  $\tau^x$  rotations meanwhile act by a flavor rotation exchanging the two Weyl fermions. Thus, our symmetry generators  $Q_0, Q_1$  correspond to two  $su(2)$  generators in the flavor symmetry of the low energy, at an angle of K. For  $K \neq 0, \pi$ , they thus generate the whole chiral symmetry.

We can demonstrate that this symmetry protects the gapless Weyl points. To do so, we must break translation symmetry, since otherwise  $z$ -axis translations also

act as a discrete axial symmetry and help to stabilize the Weyl nodes  $[12, 13]$ . To analyze translationsymmetry breaking, we consider an extended basis  $e_{\mathbf{k}} \equiv (c_{\mathbf{k}-\mathbf{K}}, c^{\dagger}_{-\mathbf{k}+\mathbf{K}}, c_{\mathbf{k}+\mathbf{K}}, c^{\dagger}_{-\mathbf{k}-\mathbf{K}})^{T}$  (we suppress the spin component). Hamiltonians in this basis may couple states at  $\mathbf{k}$  with  $\mathbf{k} + 2\mathbf{K}$  but are automatically  $Q_0$ preserving. In this basis the symmetry action of  $Q_1$  be- $\text{comes}$ 

$$U(1)_{\hat{Q}_1} : \delta e_{\mathbf{k}} = i(\cos k_z \cos K \tau^z + \sin k_z \sin K \eta^z \tau^z + \sin k_z \cos K \tau^x - \cos k_z \sin K \eta^z \tau^x) e_{\mathbf{k}}, \tag{14}$$

which prohibits all mass terms except  $m_i(\mathbf{k})\eta^z\sigma^j$ . However, these terms always commute with at least one term in the original Hamiltonian, so the result is a shift in the gapless modes rather than a gap. At a large enough pertubation, we can move the modes until  $K = 0$  or  $\pi$ , where the symmetry generators are aligned and no longer generate the whole  $SU(2)$  symmetry. At these special points, we will be able to open a symmetric gap.

## IV. TIME REVERSAL SYMMETRIC SINGLE WEYL FERMION IN $3+1D$

So far, we have considered time-reversal breaking models. We can also construct time-reversal invariant models, at the cost of making the symmetry generator slightly more not-on-site. As long as  $S(\mathbf{k})$  is a smooth function of the momentum, then the charge density in real space will be a sum of terms with faster-than-polynomial decay. Such "almost-local" operators share many properties with local operators, while being closed under Hamiltonian evolution generated by such terms  $[20, 21]$ . This will allow us to employ bump functions and partitions of unity in momentum space.

To construct a time-reversal invariant model with a single protected Weyl fermion, we begin with a model on a cubic lattice with eight Weyl nodes. We use the BdG formalism with the basis  $d_{\mathbf{k}}^{\dagger} \equiv (c_{\mathbf{k}\uparrow}^{\dagger}, c_{\mathbf{k}\downarrow}^{\dagger}, c_{-\mathbf{k}\uparrow}, c_{-\mathbf{k}\downarrow})$  used above, giving the Hamiltonian

$$h_8^{\text{BdG}}(\mathbf{k}) = \frac{1}{2} \left[ \sin k_x \sigma^x + \sin k_y \sigma^z + \sin k_z \tau^z \sigma^y \right]. \tag{15}$$

This model has Weyl nodes at all eight time-reversalinvariant-momentum (TRIM) points of the Brillouin zone, as well as a time-reversal symmetry  $\Theta = i\sigma^y \mathcal{K}$ , where  $\mathcal{K}$  is complex conjugation, satisfying  $\Theta^2 = -1$ .

We will now add a  $U(1)$  symmetry-breaking term that will gap out all Weyl nodes except the one at  $\mathbf{k} = \mathbf{0}$ . In order to facilitate our discussion, let us first define a bump function  $B(k)$  given by

$$B(\mathbf{k}, w) = \begin{cases} e^{-\frac{w^2}{|\mathbf{k}|^2 - w^2}} & \text{for } |\mathbf{k}| < w\\ 0 & \text{for } |\mathbf{k}| \ge w \end{cases} \tag{16}$$