② Exactly one vertex in T has outgoing neighbor in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus$  $BS_{n-1}^{3}$ )).

Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2 ②, w.l.o.g, assume that b has an outgoing neigh*bor b'* in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^3)), \{c^+\} \subseteq V(BS_{n-1}^1), \{a^-, c^-\} \subseteq V(BS_{n-1}^2),$  $\{a^+\} \subseteq V(BS_{n-1}^3)$ . Similarly to the proof in Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find  $M_i \subseteq H_i$  such that  $|M_i| = 2k - 1$   $(i = 1, 3)$  and  $M_2 \subseteq H_2$  such that  $|M_2| = 2k$ .

Since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}) = 4k+1$ , we can construct one  $4k$ -fan from a to  $M_1 \cup M_2 \cup \{c^+\}$ , one 4k-fan from b to  $M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^-, c^-\}$ , one 4k-fan from c to  $M_2^+ \cup M_3^+ \cup \{a^+\}$ . Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Let  $b_1 = b'$ . Additionally, there must exist  $b_2 \in N_{BS^2}$  (b) such that  $b_2$  does not appear on any of  $(b, M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^-, c^-\})$ -paths, since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}^2 - \{b_2\}) = (2n - 5) - 1 = 4k$  and  $|M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^-, c^-\}| = 4k$ .

 $\textcircled{3}$  Exactly two vertices in T have outgoing neighbor in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus$  $BS_{n-1}^{3}$ )).

Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2 (3), w.l.o.g, assume that  $\{a^-\} \subseteq V(BS_{n-1}^2), \{a^+\} \subseteq$  $V(BS_{n-1}^3)$  and b, c have outgoing neighbors b', c' in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2)$  $BS_{n-1}^{3}$ ), respectively. Similarly to the proof of Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find  $M_i \subseteq H_i$  such that  $|M_i| = 2k - 1$   $(i = 1, 3)$  and  $M_2 \subseteq H_2$  such that  $|M_i| = 2k + 1$ . In addition, there must exist one  $(b', c')$ -path in  $BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^3)$ .

Since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}) = 4k + 1$ , we can construct one 4k-fan from a to  $M_1 \cup M_2$ , one  $(4k-1)$ -fan from b to  $M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^-\}$ , one  $(4k+1)$ -fan from c to  $M_2^+ \cup M_3^+ \cup \{a^+\}$ . Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Moreover, there must exist  $b_1, b_2 \in$  $N_{BS_{n-1}^2}(b)$  such that  $b_1, b_2$  do not appear on any of  $(b, M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^+\})$ -paths, since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}^2 - \{b_1, b_2\}) = (2n - 5) - 2 = 4k - 1 \text{ and } |M_1^+ \cup M_3 \cup \{a^+\}| = 4k - 1.$ 

 $\bigoplus$  Each vertex in T has at least one outgoing neighbor in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus$  $BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^3)$ ).

*Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2*  $\oplus$ *, w.l.o.g, assume that a, b and c have outgoing* neighbors a', b' and c' in  $V(BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^3))$ , respectively. Since a', b' and c' cannot all be equal, suppose that  $b' \neq a'$  and  $b' \neq c'$ . Similarly to the *proof in Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find*  $M_i \subseteq H_i$  *such that*  $|M_i| = 2k$   $(i = 1, 3)$ and  $M_2 \subseteq H_2$  such that  $|M_2| = 2k+1$ . In addition, there must exist one  $(a', c')$ -path in  $BS_n \setminus (BS_{n-1}^1 \oplus BS_{n-1}^2 \oplus BS_{n-1}^3)$ .

Since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}) = 4k + 1$ , we can construct one  $(4k + 1)$ -fan from a to  $M_1 \cup M_2$ , one 4k-fan from b to  $M_1^+ \cup M_3$ , one  $(4k+1)$ -fan from c to  $M_2^+ \cup M_3^+$ . Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Let  $b_1 = b'$ . Additionally, there must exist  $b_2 \in N_{BS^2_{-1}}(b)$  such that  $b_2$  does not occur on any of  $(b, M_1^+ \cup M_3)$ -paths, since  $\kappa(BS_{n-1}^2 - \{b_2\}) = (2n-5) - 1 = 4k \text{ and } |M_1^+ \cup M_3| = 4k.$ 

Combining the results of Part 1 and Part 2, the proof is completed.  $\Box$