distance at least K from each of  $u, v, w$ . We cannot have  $d_G(w, Q(x, y)) < K$  since then we get  $d_G(x,w) < K + K = 2K$ , which is impossible as  $x \in P(u,v)$ . Similarly, we cannot have  $d_G(u, Q(x, y)) < K$ . Assume, by way of contradiction,  $d_G(v, Q(x, y)) < K$ . Then, there is a vertex  $z \in Q(x,y)$  with  $d_G(v,z) < K$ . Assuming, without loss of generality,  $d_G(x,z) \leq$  $d_G(z,y)$ , we get  $d_G(v,x) \le d_G(v,z) + d_G(z,x) \le K - 1 + (K-1)/2 = 3/2(K-1) < \lfloor \frac{3}{2}K \rfloor$ . The latter contradicts the choice of vertex  $v_u$  as being a vertex of  $P(u,v) \cap D_G(v,\lfloor \frac{3}{2}K \rfloor)$  furthest (along the path  $P(u, v)$ ) from v. This proves that the  $K_{1,3}$ -minor constructed is K-fat.

Now, we can assume that all three paths  $P(v_u, u_v)$ ,  $P(v_w, w_v)$ ,  $P(u_w, w_u)$  are pairwise at distance at least K. In this case, we can build a K-fat  $K_3$ -minor in G. Set  $H_v$  :=  $G[D_G(v,\lfloor\frac{3}{2}K\rfloor)], H_u := G[D_G(u,\lfloor\frac{3}{2}K\rfloor)], H_w := G[D_G(w,\lfloor\frac{3}{2}K\rfloor)].$  It is easy to see that these connected subgraphs  $H_v, H_w, H_u$  and paths  $P(v_u, u_v), P(v_w, w_v), P(u_w, w_u)$  form a K-fat  $K_3$ minor in G. Recall that  $d_G(v, P(u, w)) \ge 4K$ ,  $d_G(u, P(v, w)) \ge 4K$  and  $d_G(w, P(u, v)) \ge 4K$ . Hence, if  $d_G(V(H_v), V(H_u)) < K$ , then  $d_G(v, u) < \lfloor \frac{3}{2}K \rfloor + K + \lfloor \frac{3}{2}K \rfloor \leq 4K$ , which is impossible. If  $d_G(V(H_v), P(u_w, w_u)) < K$ , then  $d_G(v, P(u, w)) < \lfloor \frac{3}{2}K \rfloor + K < 3K$ , which is also impossible. By symmetries, the  $K_3$ -minor constructed is  $K$ -fat.  $\Box$ 

Note that, in the proof of Lemma 12, we constructed very specific K-fat  $(K_3, K_{1,3})$ -minors. In our K-fat  $K_3$ -minor, the connected subgraphs  $H_1, H_2, H_3$  are disks. In our K-fat  $K_{1,3}$ minor, the connected subgraphs  $H_1, H_2, H_3$  are singletons and the paths  $P_{i,0}, i = 1, 2, 3$ , are shortest paths. Even more specific K-fat  $(K_3, K_{1,3})$ -minors were obtained in [1]. It was shown that if a graph G contains no ( $\geq K$ )-subdivision of  $K_3$  as a geodesic subgraph and no ( $\geq 3K$ )subdivision of  $K_{1,3}$  as a 3-quasi-geodesic subgraph, then  $\mathsf{pb}(G) \leq 18K + 2$  (see [1] for details and definitions).

From Lemma  $12$ , we immediately get the following corollary.

**Corollary 7.** If G has neither K-fat  $K_3$ -minor nor K-fat  $K_{1,3}$ -minor, then  $\text{mci}(G) \leq 4K-1$ . In particular,  $\text{mci}(G) \leq 4 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 3$ .

*Proof.* The first part of Corollary 7 follows from Lemma 12. For the second part, let  $\mathsf{mfi}(G) =$  $K-1$ . Then, G has neither K-fat  $K_3$ -minor nor K-fat  $K_{1,3}$ -minor. By the first part,  $\text{mci}(G) \leq$  $4K - 1 = 4(K - 1) + 3 = 4 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 3.$  $\Box$ 

Combining Lemma  $11$  and Corollary 7 with Theorem 4, we get.

**Theorem 5.** For every graph  $G$ ,

$$\begin{aligned} \mathsf{mfi}(G) &\leq \mathsf{mci}(G) \leq 4 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 3, \\ \mathsf{mfi}(G) &\leq \mathsf{pl}(G) \leq 16 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 10, \\ \frac{\mathsf{mfi}(G)}{2} &\leq \mathsf{pat}(G) \leq 8 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 5, \\ \frac{\mathsf{mfi}(G) - 1}{2} &\leq \mathsf{adc}(G) \leq 16 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 10, \\ \mathsf{mfi}(G) &\leq \Delta(G) \leq 16 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 12, \\ \frac{\mathsf{mfi}(G)}{4} &\leq \mathsf{dsp}(G) \leq \mathsf{dpr}(G) \leq 8 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 5 \\ \frac{\mathsf{mfi}(G)}{2} &\leq \mathsf{pcc}(G) \leq 16 \cdot \mathsf{mfi}(G) + 10. \end{aligned}$$