**Lemma 4.** The function det  $A_{n,3}$  has the same sign as  $\delta_n$  in some neighborhood of the triangular boundary of the region  $0 < x_1 < x_2 < 1$ . Hence, it is negative in this neighborhood if  $n \leq 472$  and positive si  $n \geq 473$ .

The proof follows by an analysis of the dominant terms in different pieces of the boundary.

**Lemma 5.** In the Newtonian case if  $456 \le n \le 472$ , the function  $A_n(x,\sqrt{x})$ vanishes at least once on each of the intervals  $(0, 0.098)$  and  $(0.098, 1)$ . If  $473 \le$  $n \leq 874$ , the function  $A_n(x,\sqrt{x})$  vanishes at least once on each of the intervals  $(0, 0.97)$  and  $(0.97, 1)$ .

**Proof of Lemma 5** We must study the roots in the interval  $(0,1)$  of the equation

$$\det A_{n;3}(x,\sqrt{x}) = \delta_n^3 + p_n(x,\sqrt{x})\delta_n + q_n(x,\sqrt{x}) = 0,$$

where

$$\begin{array}{rcl} p_n(x,\sqrt{x}) &=& -k_n(x)k_n(1/x) - 2k_n(\sqrt{x})k_n(1/\sqrt{x})\\ q_n(x,\sqrt{x}) &=& k_n(x)k_n(1/\sqrt{x})^2 + k_n(1/x)k_n(\sqrt{x})^2. \end{array}$$

From the analysis of  $p_n(x,\sqrt{x})$  and  $q_n(x,\sqrt{x})$  for x close to 0 and x close to 1 it follows that if  $n \leq 472$  (resp.  $n \geq 473$ ) the determinant  $A_{n;3}(x,\sqrt{x})$  is negative (resp. positive) in a neighborhood of  $x = 0$  and  $x = 1$ .

Hence, to prove the Lemma, it is enough to check numerically that

- for each integer  $456 \le n \le 472$ ,  $A_{n;3}(0.098, \sqrt{0.098})$  is positive.
- for each integer  $473 \le n \le 874$ ,  $A_{n;3}(0.97, \sqrt{0.97})$  is negative.

This amounts to a finite number of checks.

The question of the positivity of the masses is more involved. In fact, not all the  $(x_1, x_2)$  for which det  $A_{n,3}(x_1, x_2) = 0$  have corresponding masses such that all of them are positive.

The figure below displays curves in  $(x_1, x_2)$  for which det  $A_{n,3}(x_1, x_2) = 0$  for the admissible range of n. The curve for  $n = 456$  looks like a small ellipse around  $P = (0.098, \sqrt{0.098})$ , while the one for  $n = 874$  looks like a small ellipse around  $Q = (0.97, \sqrt{0.97})$ . The last curve of index 1 around P has  $n = 472$ , while the first curve of index 1 around  $Q$  has  $n = 473$ .