by  $U(X)$  in **Alt**. In fact, one may verify that the semi-direct product  $B \ltimes_{\varphi} U(X)$ with multiplication

$$(b,x)\cdot(b',x') = (bb',xx'+\varphi(b)x'+x\varphi(b'))$$

is an alternative algebra. We thus have a natural isomorphism

$$\text{SplExt}(-, U(X)) \cong \text{Hom}_{\text{Alt}}(-, U(X))$$

and we can state the following.

**Theorem 3.2.** The category  $\mathbf{Alt}_1$  is action representable with the actor of a unitary  $alternative algebra X being isomorphic to X itself.$  $\Box$ 

## 4. Poisson algebras

The aim of this section is to prove that the categories  $\mathbf{Pois}_1$  of unitary Poisson algebras and  $\mathbf{CPois}_1$  of unitary commutative Poisson algebras over a field  $\mathbb{F}$  with  $char(\mathbb{F}) \neq 2$  are action representable.

We recall that a Poisson algebra is a vector space  $X$  over  $\mathbb{F}$  equipped with two bilinear multiplications

$$\cdot: X \times X \to X \quad \text{and} \quad [-,-] \colon X \times X \to X$$

such that  $(X, \cdot)$  is an associative algebra,  $(X, [-, -])$  is a Lie algebra and the *Poisson*  $identity$  holds:

$$[x, yz] = [x, y]z + y[x, z], \quad \forall x, y, z \in X.$$

A Poisson algebra is said to be *commutative* (resp.  $unitary$ ) if the underlying associative algebra is commutative (resp. unitary).

It was proved in [6] that for any Poisson algebra X there exists a natural monomorphism of functors

$$\tau \colon \text{SplExt}(-, X) \rightarrow \text{Hom}_{\mathbf{Alg}^2}(U(-), [X]),$$

where  $\mathbf{Alg}^2$  denotes the category of algebras with two non-necessairly associative bilinear operations,  $\tilde{U}$ : **Pois**  $\rightarrow$   $\mathbf{Alg}^2$  is the forgetful functor and

$$[X] = \{f = (f * -, - *f, [f, -]) \in \text{Bim}(X) \times \text{Der}(X) \mid \cdots \}$$

 $\cdots | f*[x,y] = [f*x,y] - [f,y]x, [x,y]*f = [x*f,y] - x[f,y], [f,xy] = [f,x]y + x[f,y]$ is the universal strict general actor of  $X$ , which is endowed with the bilinear multiplications

$$f \cdot g = (f * (f' * -), (- * f) * f'), f * [f', -] + [f, -] * f')$$

and

$$[f,g] = (f * [f', -] - [f', f * -], [f', -] * f - [f', - * f], [f, [f', -]] - [f', [f, -]]).$$

Furthermore, a morphism  $\varphi = (\varphi_1, \varphi_2, \varphi_3) \colon \tilde{U}(B) \to [X]$  belongs to  $\text{Im}(\tau_B)$  if and only if  $(\varphi_1, \varphi_2) \colon (B, \cdot) \to \text{Bim}(X)$  is an acting morphism in **Assoc**.

If X has trivial annihilator or  $(X^2, \cdot) = (X, \cdot)$ , then eq. (3.1) holds in  $\text{Bim}(X)$ and we have a natural isomorphism

$$\text{SplExt}(-, X) \cong \text{Hom}_{\mathbf{Alg}^2}(U(-), [X]).$$

This happens, for instance, when  $X$  is a unitary Poisson algebra. In this case, it is possible to prove that  $[X]$  is a Poisson algebra. Indeed, by the results in Section 3, the universal strict general actor  $[X]$  may be described as the subalgebra of all pairs  $(\alpha, [f, -]) \in X \times \text{Der}(X)$  such that

$$\alpha[x, y] = [\alpha x, y] - [f, y]x,$$
  
$$[x, y]\alpha = [x\alpha, y] - x[f, y]$$