## ON THE STABILITY OF THE PENALTY FUNCTION FOR THE $\mathbb{Z}^2$ -HARD SQUARE SHIFT

## CHIHIRO OGURI AND MAO SHINODA

ABSTRACT. We investigate the stability of maximizing measures for a penalty function of a two-dimensional subshift of finite type, building on the work of Gonschorowski et al. [GQS21]. In the one-dimensional case, such measures remain stable under Lipschitz perturbations for any subshift of finite type. However, instability arises for a penalty function of the Robinson tiling, which is a two-dimensional subshift of finite type with no periodic point and zero entropy. This raises the question of whether stability persists in two-dimensional subshifts of finite type with positive topological entropy. In this paper, we address this question by studying the  $\mathbb{Z}^2$ -hard square shift, a well-known example of a two-dimensional subshift with positive entropy. Our main theorem establishes that, in contrast to previous results, a penalty function of the hard square shift remains stable under Lipschitz perturbations.

## 1. Introduction

Ergodic optimization is the study of maximizing measures. In its most basic form, let  $T: X \to X$  be a continuous map on a compact metric space X and for a continuous function  $\varphi: X \to \mathbb{R}$  we consider the *maximum*  $ergodic$   $average$ 

$$\beta(\varphi) = \sup_{\mu \in \mathcal{M}_T(X)} \int \varphi \ d\mu$$

where  $\mathcal{M}_T(X)$  is the space of T-invariant Borel probability measures on X endowed with the weak<sup>\*</sup>-topology. An invariant measure which attains the maximum is called a *maximizing measure* for  $\varphi$  and denote by  $\mathcal{M}_{\text{max}}(\varphi)$  the set of maximizing measures for  $\varphi$ .

The stability of maximizing measures for a penalty function of a subshift of finite type was established by Gonschorowski et al.  $[GQS21]$ . A penalty function is defined on the forbidden set of a subshift of finite type, assigning a value of 0 to admissible local configurations near the origin and  $-1$  otherwise (see  $\S 2$  for more details). It is straightforward to see that every maximizing measure of a penalty function is supported on the given subshift of finite type. In the one-dimensional case, maximizing measures remain supported on the given subshift under Lipschitz perturbations for any subshift of finite type. However, in the two-dimensional case, there exists a subshift of finite type where this stability fails.

In [GQS21], the authors highlight the difference between one and two dimensions, demonstrating that instability arises in a penalty function of the Robinson tiling, which is a two-dimensional subshift of finite type with no

<sup>2010</sup> Mathematics Subject Classification. Primary 37B51, 37B10, 37B25.