## AOI WAKUDA

by the WINGS-FMSP program at the Graduate School of Mathematical Sciences, the University of Tokyo.

## 2. ISOMETRIES ON HYPERBOLIC PLANE

Let  $\mathbb{H}$  be the upper half-plane model in hyperbolic geometry. The group of isometries of  $\mathbb{H}$  is given by

$$\operatorname{PSL}_{2}^{\pm}(\mathbb{R}) = \left\{ \pm \begin{pmatrix} a & b \\ c & d \end{pmatrix} \middle| a, b, c, d \in \mathbb{R}, ad - bc = \pm 1 \right\}.$$

Each isometry  $g \in \text{PSL}^{\pm}_{2}(\mathbb{R})$  is classified according to the absolute value of its trace (for example, see  $[5]$ :

- Case 1:  $\det g = 1$  (Orientation-preserving isometries)

- **Elliptic** if  $|\text{Tr } g| < 2$ . In this case,  $g$  has a unique fixed point in  $\mathbb{H}$ .
- **Parabolic** if  $|\text{Tr } g| = 2$ . In this case, g has a unique fixed point on the real axis.
- **Hyperbolic** if  $|\text{Tr} g| > 2$ . In this case, g has exactly two fixed points on the real axis.

- Case 2: det  $q = -1$  (Orientation-reversing isometries)

- **Reflection** if  $\text{Tr } g = 0$ . In this case, g is an involution with a geodesic of fixed points.
- **Glide-reflection** if  $\text{Tr } g \neq 0$ . In this case, g has two fixed points on the real axis.

For each  $g \in \mathrm{PSL}_2^{\pm}(\mathbb{R})$ , the translation length  $t_g$  is defined as:

$$t_g = \inf_{z \in \mathbb{H}} d(z, gz).$$

If  $t_g$  is positive, we call g a positive translation isometry. For a positive translation isometry g, the absolute value of the trace of  $g$  satisfies the following:

$$|\text{Tr}\,g| = \begin{cases} 2\cosh\frac{t_g}{2}, & \text{if } g \text{ is hyperbolic,} \\ 2\sinh\frac{t_g}{2}, & \text{if } g \text{ is a glide-reflection.} \end{cases} \tag{1}$$

For a positive translation isometry  $g \in \mathrm{PSL}_2^{\pm}(\mathbb{R})$ , we define  $A_g$  as the axis of  $g$ , i.e., the geodesic joining the two fixed points of g, and let  $\rho_{A_g}$  be the reflection with respect to  $A_g$ .

We state the following result from  $[1, \text{Theorem 7.38.6}]$  because it will be used later.

**Theorem 2.1.** [1, Theorem 7.38.6] Let  $q$  and  $h$  be hyperbolic transformations of the hyperbolic plane and suppose that  $A_g$  and  $A_h$  intersect at a point P. Denote by  $\theta_P$  the angle at P between forward direction of  $A_g$  and  $A_h$ . Then the composition  $g \circ h$  is hyperbolic and

$$\frac{1}{2}|\text{Tr}\,gh| = \cosh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\cosh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right) + \sinh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\sinh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right)\cos(\theta_P). \tag{2}$$

Now, we generalize the above theorem to positive translation isometries. The proof of  $[1,$ Theorem 7.38.6] uses the law of cosines for the triangle formed by the three axes  $A_q$ ,  $A_h$ , and  $A_{qh}$ to compute the absolute value of the trace. In this paper we compute the absolute value of the trace by matrix computations as follows.

**Theorem 2.2.** Let  $g$  and  $h$  be positive translation isometries and suppose that  $A_g$  and  $A_h$  intersect at a point P. Denote by  $\theta_P$  the angle at P between forward direction of  $A_g$  and  $A_h$ . Then, the  $following hold.$ 

Case 1: If  $g$  is a glide-reflection and  $h$  is a hyperbolic element,

$$\frac{1}{2}|\text{Tr}\,gh| = \left|\sinh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\cosh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right) + \cosh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\sinh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right)\cos\theta_P\right|.\tag{3}$$

 $Case 2: If both g and h are glide-reflections,$ 

$$\frac{1}{2}|\text{Tr}\,gh| = \left|\sinh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\sinh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right) + \cosh\left(\frac{t_g}{2}\right)\cosh\left(\frac{t_h}{2}\right)\cos\theta_P\right|.\tag{4}$$

*Proof.* Without loss of generality, we may assume the axis  $A_g$  equals the imaginary axis with the intersection point  $P \in A_g \cap A_h$  located at  $i \in \mathbb{H}$ . See Figure 1.