define the set  $S \subseteq \{1, 2, \ldots, n\} \times \{1, 2, \ldots, f+g\}$ , and assume the entry  $A_{\text{true}} B_{\text{true}}$  is given for all  $(i, j) \in S$ . The set of systems compatible with the prior knowledge is given by

$$\Sigma_{pk}(S) := \left\{ (A, B) \mid \begin{aligned} \left[ A \ B \right]_{ij} &= \left[ A_{\text{true}} \ B_{\text{true}} \right]_{ij} \forall (i, j) \in S \right\}. \end{aligned} \tag{6}$$

Subsequently, we define the set of systems compatible with both the data and the prior knowledge as

$$\Sigma := \Sigma_d \cap \Sigma_{pk}(S). \tag{7}$$

Note that the case that all entries of  $A_{\text{true}}$  and  $B_{\text{true}}$  are unknown can be captured by setting  $S = \varnothing$ , which implies  $\Sigma = \Sigma_d$ . It is clear from (2) and (6) that the system  $(A_{\text{true}}, B_{\text{true}})$  belongs to  $\Sigma$ . However, in general,  $\Sigma$  contains other systems because the data may not uniquely determine  $A_{\text{true}}$  and  $B_{\text{true}}$ , even if some entries of  $A_{\text{true}}$ and  $B_{\text{true}}$  are known.

The goal of this paper is to find a controller that stabilizes the origin of the system  $(A_{\text{true}}, B_{\text{true}})$ . Since on the basis of the data and the prior knowledge we cannot distinguish between  $(A_{\text{true}}, B_{\text{true}})$  and any other system in  $\Sigma$ , we need to find a single controller that stabilizes the origin of all systems in  $\Sigma$ . This motivates the following definition of informative data for stabilization of polynomial systems. In the rest of the paper, we assume that

 $F(0) = 0.$ 

**Definition 1** The data  $(\mathcal{X}, \mathcal{X}, \mathcal{U})$  are called *informative* for stabilization if there exist a radially unbounded function  $V \in \mathcal{V}$  and a continuous controller  $K : \mathbb{R}^n \to \mathbb{R}^m$ such that  $K(0) = 0$  and

$$\frac{\partial V(x)}{\partial x}(AF(x) + BG(x)K(x)) < 0 \quad \forall x \in \mathbb{R}^n \setminus \{0\}, \ (8)$$

for all  $(A, B) \in \Sigma$ .

Note that for a controller K satisfying  $K(0) = 0$ , the origin of the closed-loop system

$$\dot{x} = AF(x) + BG(x)K(x),\tag{9}$$

is an equilibrium point, as  $F(0) = 0$ . If (8) holds then the origin is globally asymptotically stable for all closedloop systems obtained by interconnecting any system  $(A, B) \in \Sigma$  with the controller  $u = K(x)$ .

In this paper, we study the following two problems.

Problem 1 (Informativity) Find conditions under which the data  $(\dot{\mathcal{X}}, \mathcal{X}, \mathcal{U})$  are informative for stabilization.

Problem 2 (Controller design) Suppose the data  $(\mathcal{X}, \mathcal{X}, \mathcal{U})$  are informative for stabilization. Find a controller  $u = K(x)$  satisfying  $K(0) = 0$  and (8).

## Connection to previous work $\mathbf{3}$

Current approaches for data-driven control of polynomial systems [8,9] build on the model-based method proposed in  $[15]$ . These methods do not incorporate prior knowledge and instead focus on designing a common stabilizing controller for all systems compatible with the data. In these works, the controller is considered to be of the form

$$K(x) = Y(x)PZ(x)$$

where  $Y \in \mathbb{R}^{m \times p}[x], P \in \mathbb{S}^p$  is positive definite, and  $Z \in \mathbb{R}^p[x]$  is radially unbounded satisfying

$$F(x) = H(x)Z(x), \qquad (10)$$

for some  $H \in \mathbb{R}^{f \times p}[x]$ . The choice of candidate Lya- $\text{punov function}$ 

$$V(x) = Z^{\top}(x)PZ(x), \qquad (11)$$

then leads to

$$\frac{\partial V}{\partial x}(x)(AF(x) + BG(x)K(x)) = 2Z^{\top}(x)P\Theta(x)PZ(x),$$

where

$$\Theta(x) := \frac{\partial Z}{\partial x}(x) \left[ A \ B \right] \begin{bmatrix} H(x)P^{-1} \\ G(x)Y(x) \end{bmatrix}$$

The main idea in this line of work is to find  $P$  and  $Y(x)$ such that

$$-\Theta(x) - \Theta^{\top}(x) > 0 \quad \forall x \in \mathbb{R}^n \setminus \{0\}, \tag{12}$$

for all systems  $(A, B)$  compatible with the data. In the earlier work [8],  $H(x)$  is taken to be equal to the identity matrix, which implies that  $Z(x) = F(x)$ . In contrast, [9] considers more general  $Z(x)$  satisfying (10). This strategy is appealing because it leads to data-based linear matrix inequalities for control design. Unfortunately, however, the method also has some major limitations.

(1) The matrix  $\frac{\partial Z}{\partial x}(x)$  must have full row rank for all  $x \in \mathbb{R}^n \setminus \{0\}.$ 

Indeed, suppose that there exists a nonzero  $x$  such that  $\frac{\partial Z}{\partial x}(x)$  does not have full row rank. Then  $\Theta(x)$  is singular, which implies that (12) does not hold. Note that the full row rank condition can only hold if  $p \leq n$ , i.e., the number of polynomials in Z is less than or equal to the state-space dimension of the system. This limits the class of Lyapunov functions of the form  $(11)$  that can be considered by the