with

$$\rho(y,x,\eta') = \varphi(y,\eta') - \varphi(x,\eta') - (y-x)\varphi_x(x,\eta'),$$

 $\rho$  vanishes at order  $> 2$  in  $y = x$ . For checking (3.10), we see

$$(3.11) \qquad Q(ae^{i\frac{\varphi}{h}}) = \int \int e^{i\frac{1}{h}((x'-y')\theta'+\varphi(y,\eta'))} \frac{q(x,\theta')}{(2\pi h)^{n-1}} a(y,\eta') \, dy' d\theta'$$

a having compact support and  $\varphi$  being a symbol, one has  $|\varphi'_y| \leq C'$  on supp $(qa)$ , so for  $|\theta'| \geq C > 0$ , large, the phase of (3.11)  $H = (x' - y')\theta' + \varphi(y, \eta')$  satisfies

$$|H'_{y'}| \ge c(1+|\theta'|), \quad \text{for } |\theta'| \ge C > 0, \text{ large}$$

and if we split the integrand of (3.11) in  $qa = \chi(\theta')qa + (1 - \chi(\theta'))qa$ , we integrate the second term by parts and obtain

(3.12) 
$$Q(ae^{i\frac{\varphi}{\hbar}}) = Q'_{\varphi}(a)e^{i\frac{\varphi}{\hbar}} + R(a),$$

where  $Q'_{\varphi}$  is a  $\mathcal{G}^s$  symbol of order  $\widetilde{S}^{m,k+1}_s$  having the expansion (3.10) by the stationary phase lemma as  $R(a)$  is an  $\mathcal{O}_s(h^{\infty})$  remainder. It is easy to see in view of these arguments that  $a_1 \in \widetilde{S}_s^{m-1,k}$ . Moreover, it is to be observed that the above expansion is only a formal Gevrey  $2s - 1$  symbol.

The microlocal invertibility of FIO reduces to the PDO case. We refer to  $|5|$  for a proof of the Gevrey elliptic result in classes  $S_s^m$ .

For proving Theorem 2, we rewrite  $(3.8)$  in the form

$$(hD_{x_1} + Q(x, hD_x; h))Fu = F(hD_{x_1} + Q')u,$$

close to  $(x_0, \xi_0; x_0, \xi_0)$  for some PDO  $Q'(x, hD_x; h)$  of bi-order  $(-1, 0)$  in using a left microlocal inverse of F close to  $(x_0, \xi'_0)$ . Indeed, we compute  $FF^*$  and  $F^*F$ , and one has writing  $y = (x_1, y').$ 

One has, following Eskin  $[8]$ ,

$$FF^*u(x,h) = \frac{1}{(2\pi h)^{n-1}} \iint e^{\frac{i}{h}(\varphi(x,\xi') - \varphi(y,\xi'))} a(x,\xi') \overline{a(y,\xi')} u(x_1,y') \, dy' \, d\xi',$$

 $\varphi(x,\xi')$  having been obtained in (3.6). We split the integral above into two terms. The first is a  $h$ -PDO, the second is a smoothing operator. First, we note that the map:

$$(x, y', \xi') \to (x, y', \Sigma(x, y', \xi')),$$

with

(3.13) 
$$\Sigma(x, y', \xi') = \int_0^1 \varphi'_{x'}(x_1, y' + t(x' - y'), \xi') dt$$

is a  $\mathcal{G}^s$ -diffeo in a neighbourhood of  $(x_0, y'_0, \eta'_0)$  with  $|x_1| \leq \delta, |x'-y'| \leq \delta, 0 < \delta$  small, close to the identity.

Let  $(x, y', \eta') \to (x, y', \Sigma^{-1}(x, y', \eta'))$  be an inverse map.

One has obviously  $\varphi(x,\xi') - \varphi(y,\xi') = \Sigma(x,y',\xi')(x'-y'),$  and

(3.14) 
$$FF^*u(x,h) = K_1u(x,h) + K_2u(x,h)$$