[{"bbox": [39, 545, 87, 1457], "category": "Text", "text": "arXiv:2503.06958v2 [math.DS] 11 Mar 2025"}, {"bbox": [293, 360, 1161, 427], "category": "Title", "text": "ON THE STABILITY OF THE PENALTY FUNCTION FOR\nTHE $\\mathbb{Z}^2$-HARD SQUARE SHIFT"}, {"bbox": [516, 471, 938, 497], "category": "Text", "text": "CHIHIRO OGURI AND MAO SHINODA"}, {"bbox": [373, 539, 1081, 888], "category": "Text", "text": "ABSTRACT. We investigate the stability of maximizing measures for a penalty function of a two-dimensional subshift of finite type, building on the work of Gonschorowski et al. [GQS21]. In the one-dimensional case, such measures remain stable under Lipschitz perturbations for any subshift of finite type. However, instability arises for a penalty function of the Robinson tiling, which is a two-dimensional subshift of finite type with no periodic point and zero entropy. This raises the question of whether stability persists in two-dimensional subshifts of finite type with positive topological entropy. In this paper, we address this question by studying the $\\mathbb{Z}^2$-hard square shift, a well-known example of a two-dimensional subshift with positive entropy. Our main theorem establishes that, in contrast to previous results, a penalty function of the hard square shift remains stable under Lipschitz perturbations."}, {"bbox": [618, 972, 837, 1001], "category": "Section-header", "text": "# 1. INTRODUCTION"}, {"bbox": [287, 1020, 1168, 1145], "category": "Text", "text": "Ergodic optimization is the study of maximizing measures. In its most basic form, let $T: X \\to X$ be a continuous map on a compact metric space $X$ and for a continuous function $\\varphi: X \\to \\mathbb{R}$ we consider the *maximum ergodic average*"}, {"bbox": [583, 1152, 871, 1224], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\beta(\\varphi) = \\sup_{\\mu \\in \\mathcal{M}_T(X)} \\int \\varphi d\\mu $$"}, {"bbox": [287, 1235, 1168, 1361], "category": "Text", "text": "where $\\mathcal{M}_T(X)$ is the space of $T$-invariant Borel probability measures on $X$ endowed with the weak*-topology. An invariant measure which attains the maximum is called a *maximizing measure* for $\\varphi$ and denote by $\\mathcal{M}_{\\max}(\\varphi)$ the set of maximizing measures for $\\varphi$."}, {"bbox": [287, 1361, 1168, 1675], "category": "Text", "text": "The stability of maximizing measures for a penalty function of a subshift of finite type was established by Gonschorowski et al. [GQS21]. A penalty function is defined on the forbidden set of a subshift of finite type, assigning a value of 0 to admissible local configurations near the origin and $-1$ otherwise (see ยง2 for more details). It is straightforward to see that every maximizing measure of a penalty function is supported on the given subshift of finite type. In the one-dimensional case, maximizing measures remain supported on the given subshift under Lipschitz perturbations for any subshift of finite type. However, in the two-dimensional case, there exists a subshift of finite type where this stability fails."}, {"bbox": [287, 1675, 1168, 1770], "category": "Text", "text": "In [GQS21], the authors highlight the difference between one and two dimensions, demonstrating that instability arises in a penalty function of the Robinson tiling, which is a two-dimensional subshift of finite type with no"}, {"bbox": [315, 1792, 1037, 1819], "category": "Footnote", "text": "2010 Mathematics Subject Classification. Primary 37B51, 37B10, 37B25."}]