[{"bbox": [712, 181, 882, 309], "category": "Picture"}, {"bbox": [182, 328, 1411, 424], "category": "Caption", "text": "Figure 6: An $N$-labeling of $\\nu = (4, 3, 3)$. The descents occur at cells $(2, 3)$, $(3, 1)$, $(3, 2)$, $(3, 3)$ yielding $\\text{maj}(\\sigma) = 2 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5$. The inversion triples are formed by $((3, 2), (3, 1), (3, 3))$, $((1, 2), (1, 3))$, and $((1, 2), (1, 4))$ yielding $\\text{inv}(\\sigma) = 3$."}, {"bbox": [182, 477, 1411, 756], "category": "Text", "text": "The *reading order* of a diagram $\\nu$ is the order on cells that goes left-to-right along rows starting from the top row and working down. The *standardization* of a labeling $\\sigma : \\nu \\to \\mathbb{N}$ with content $\\alpha = (\\alpha_0, \\alpha_1, \\dots)$, denoted by $\\text{st}(\\sigma)$, is an injective labeling $\\sigma : \\nu \\to \\{1, \\dots, |\\nu|\\}$ that labels the 0's appearing in $\\nu 1, 2, \\dots, \\alpha_0$ in the order that they appear in the reading order. The 1's appearing in $\\nu$ are labeled $\\alpha_0 + 1, \\dots, \\alpha_0 + \\alpha_1$ in reading order and so on. A triple consists of cells with row-column coordinates of the form $u = (r, c)$, $v = (r-1, c)$ and $w = (r, c+k)$ for $r, c, k \\ge 1$, where $u, w$ must be cells of $\\nu$, but $v$ is allowed to be a cell immediately below $\\nu$. Extend $\\text{st}(\\sigma)$ to cells immediately below $\\nu$ by labeling them $-\\infty$. A triple is an **inversion triple** of $\\sigma$ if the labels $\\text{st}(\\sigma)(u), \\text{st}(\\sigma)(w), \\text{st}(\\sigma)(v)$ are decreasing clockwise. The statistic $\\text{inv}(\\sigma)$ counts the number of inversion triples of $\\sigma$."}, {"bbox": [182, 785, 1411, 849], "category": "Text", "text": "A *descent* of $\\sigma$ is a cell $u = (r+1, c)$ in $\\nu$, such that $v = (r, c)$ is also in $\\nu$ and $\\sigma(u) > \\sigma(v)$. Letting $\\text{Des}(\\sigma)$ denote that set of descents we define the **major index** statistic"}, {"bbox": [618, 872, 973, 941], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\text{maj}(\\sigma) := \\sum_{u \\in \\text{Des}(\\sigma)} (\\text{leg}(u) + 1), $$"}, {"bbox": [182, 965, 1377, 997], "category": "Text", "text": "where $\\text{leg}(u)$ is the number of cells of $\\nu$ in the same column as $u$ and above $u$. See Fig 6 for an example."}, {"bbox": [182, 1011, 1411, 1104], "category": "Text", "text": "**Lemma 5.2.1.** *The monomial coefficient $\\langle [q^i t^j] \\tilde{H}_{\\mu[n]}, h_{\\eta[n]} \\rangle$ stabilizes once $n \\ge \\max(|\\mu|+\\mu_1+|\\eta|+i, |\\eta|+\\eta_1)$.* *Proof.* Fix partitions $\\mu, \\nu$ and $i, j$ and let $M^{(n)}$ denote the set of being enumerated in (26). Then"}, {"bbox": [640, 1123, 954, 1162], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\langle [q^i t^j] \\tilde{H}_{\\mu[n]}, h_{\\eta[n]} \\rangle = |M^{(n)}| $$"}, {"bbox": [182, 1185, 626, 1221], "category": "Text", "text": "and we wish to show $|M^{(n)}|$ stabilizes."}, {"bbox": [182, 1250, 1411, 1343], "category": "Text", "text": "Suppose $n \\ge |\\mu| + \\mu_1 + |\\eta| + i$ and $n \\ge |\\eta| + \\eta_1$ so that $\\mu[n]$ and $\\eta[n]$ are well-defined. Define the map $\\gamma_n : M^{(n)} \\to M^{(n+1)}$ as follows. For $\\sigma \\in M^{(n)}$, shift the bottom row of the corresponding diagram to the right by one cell and insert a new cell labelled 0 in the bottom left corner. So for instance:"}, {"bbox": [483, 1364, 1111, 1452], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\gamma_n : \\begin{array}{c} \\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|} \\hline 1 & 0 & 2 & & & \\\\ \\hline 0 & 0 & 4 & 3 & 1 & 0 \\end{array} \\\\ \\mapsto \\begin{array}{c} \\begin{array}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|} \\hline 1 & 0 & 2 & & & \\\\ \\hline 0 & 0 & 0 & 4 & 3 & 1 & 0 \\end{array} \\\\ \\hline \\end{array} \\end{array} $$"}, {"bbox": [182, 1460, 1411, 1648], "category": "Text", "text": "We have to check that the map is well-defined and surjective. We claim that the first $\\mu_1+1$ entries of the bottom row of any $\\sigma' \\in M^{(n+1)}$ are 0. Suppose for contradiction that there was a non-zero value $a$ among these first $\\mu_1+1$ cells. Then there are at least $n+1 - |\\mu| - (\\mu_1+1) = n - |\\mu| - \\mu_1$ entries right of $a$. Of these, at most $|\\eta| - 1$ are allowed to be non-zero (since $a$ is one of the $|\\eta|$ non-zero values in the labeling). Hence $a$ would contribute at least $n - |\\mu| - \\mu_1 - (|\\eta| - 1) > i$ inversion triples formed by taking $a$, the phantom cell below it, and a 0 entry to the right of it. This contradicts that $\\text{inv}(\\sigma') = i$ for $\\sigma' \\in M^{(n+1)}$."}, {"bbox": [182, 1673, 1411, 1830], "category": "Text", "text": "This implies that if we let $\\sigma$ be obtained from a $\\sigma' \\in M^{(n+1)}$ by deleting the bottom left cell and shifting the bottom row to the left by one, then $\\sigma \\in M^{(n)}$ and $\\gamma_n(\\sigma) = \\sigma'$, which implies that $\\gamma_n$ is well-defined and bijective. Indeed, the first $\\mu_1$ cells of the bottom row of $\\sigma$ will be labeled 0 and so the status of descents and inversion triples doesn't change when going from $\\sigma'$ to $\\sigma$. Thus, $\\sigma'$ and $\\sigma$ have the same inv and maj values. $\\square$"}]