[{"bbox": [214, 204, 1240, 272], "category": "Text", "text": "for the Dirichlet form associated to sticky Brownian motion. Denoting $a_0 = \\frac{1}{2+\\omega L}$ and $b_0 = \\omega a_0$, for all $s > 0$ we have"}, {"bbox": [311, 291, 1141, 523], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \n\\begin{align*}\n\\int f^2 \\, d\\mu &= a_0(f(0)^2 + f(L)^2) + b_0 \\int_0^L f^2 \\, dx, \\\\\n&\\le a_0(f(0)^2 + f(L)^2) + b_0 s \\int_0^L (f')^2 \\, dx + b_0 \\beta(s) \\left( \\int_0^L |f| \\, dx \\right)^2, \\\\\n&\\le b_0 s \\int_0^L (f')^2 \\, dx + b_0 \\max(b_0^{-2}, a_0^{-1}) \\beta(s) \\left( \\int |f| \\, d\\mu \\right)^2.\n\\end{align*}\n$$"}, {"bbox": [214, 541, 1240, 639], "category": "Text", "text": "Therefore the sticky Brownian satisfies a super Poincaré inequality. Then by [Wan00, Th. 5.1], it has an empty essential spectrum. Now, by [BGL14, Th. A.6.4], the resolvent is compact and thus the generator has discrete spectrum. □"}, {"bbox": [214, 658, 1240, 726], "category": "Text", "text": "**Corollary 19.** *Choosing $T = m^{-1/2}$, the transition semigroup of the RTP process is exponentially contractive in $T$-average with rate*"}, {"bbox": [602, 745, 851, 815], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\nu = \\Omega \\left( \\frac{\\omega}{1 + (\\omega L)^2} \\right). $$"}, {"bbox": [214, 832, 1240, 1062], "category": "Text", "text": "Note that the relaxation time corresponding to this decay rate is of the same order as the mixing time obtained in [GHM24]. It reveals the existence of two regimes controlled by the parameter $\\omega L$. In the ballistic regime $\\omega L \\ll 1$, velocity flips are rare, leading to a fast exploration of the position space $S$ and a comparatively slow exploration of the velocity space $V$. This results in the scaling $\\nu \\propto \\omega$. On the contrary, in the diffusive regime $\\omega L \\gg 1$, the high frequency of velocity flips makes the exploration of $V$ faster than the exploration of $S$. This leads to the scaling $\\nu \\propto \\omega^{-1}L^{-2}$."}, {"bbox": [214, 1083, 1240, 1182], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* We begin by verifying Assumption (A). Recall that $\\text{Dom}(\\mathcal{L}_{C^0})$ is a core of $\\mathcal{L}$ by Theorem 7. For all $f \\in \\text{Dom}(\\mathcal{L}_{C^0})$ we have $\\hat{\\mathcal{L}}_v(f \\circ \\pi) = 0$ hence $\\hat{\\mathcal{L}}_{\\text{tr}}$ is a lift of $\\mathcal{L}$ by Remark 8. Furthermore, for $f \\in \\text{Dom}(\\mathcal{L}_{C^0})$ one has"}, {"bbox": [401, 1201, 1051, 1242], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\hat{\\mathcal{L}}_{\\text{tr}}^*(f \\circ \\pi)(x, v) = -v1_{\\{0<x<L\\}} f'(x) = -\\hat{\\mathcal{L}}_{\\text{tr}}(f \\circ \\pi)(x, v). $$"}, {"bbox": [214, 1262, 655, 1293], "category": "Text", "text": "A straightforward computation yields"}, {"bbox": [406, 1312, 1046, 1381], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\int_{\\mathcal{V}} \\hat{\\mathcal{L}}_v f(x, v) \\, d\\kappa_x(v) = 0 \\text{ for all } x \\in S \\text{ and } f \\in \\text{Dom}(\\hat{\\mathcal{L}}). $$"}, {"bbox": [214, 1398, 1134, 1441], "category": "Text", "text": "Finally, we prove $\\|f - \\Pi_v f\\|_{L^2(\\hat{\\mu})} \\le \\frac{1}{m_v} \\mathcal{E}_v(f)$ with $m_v = 2$. Define the matrices"}, {"bbox": [422, 1462, 1032, 1565], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ S = \\begin{pmatrix} 1/4 & 0 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 1/2 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 0 & 1/4 \\end{pmatrix}, \\quad Q = \\begin{pmatrix} -2 & 2 & 0 \\\\ 1 & -2 & 1 \\\\ 0 & 2 & -2 \\end{pmatrix}, $$"}, {"bbox": [214, 1587, 1240, 1656], "category": "Text", "text": "as well as the scalar product $\\langle x, y \\rangle_S = x^\\top S y$ and let $\\Pi$ be the orthogonal projection on the kernel of $Q$ with respect to $\\langle \\cdot, \\cdot \\rangle_S$. The matrix $Q$ is symmetric w.r.t. the scalar"}]