[{"bbox": [206, 189, 382, 225], "category": "Text", "text": "which implies"}, {"bbox": [420, 249, 1170, 347], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\sum_{k=0}^{N} \\alpha_k \\left( |\\Theta(x^k)| + \\frac{\\|t^k\\|^2}{2} \\right) \\le \\frac{1}{\\beta} (\\Phi_j(x^0) - \\hat{y}_j), \\quad \\therefore \\theta(x^k) < 0. $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 368, 1385, 439], "category": "Text", "text": "Since the right-hand side of the above inequality is finite and inequality holds for any positive integer $N$, then we get"}, {"bbox": [598, 433, 993, 525], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\sum_{k=0}^{\\infty} \\alpha_k \\left( |\\Theta(x^k)| + \\frac{\\|t^k\\|^2}{2} \\right) < \\infty. $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 535, 887, 570], "category": "Text", "text": "The above inequality implies the result of this lemma. □"}, {"bbox": [206, 593, 1388, 702], "category": "Text", "text": "**Theorem 4.1.** Suppose that $\\Phi$ is convex in component-wise sense (i.e., $\\Phi$ is $\\mathbb{R}^m$-convex) and the Assumption 1 holds. Then any sequence produced by Algorithm 3.1 converges to a WPOS $x^* \\in \\mathbb{R}^n$."}, {"bbox": [206, 723, 1385, 798], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* Since by Algorithm 3.1, $\\{\\Phi(x^k)\\}$ is a component-wise decreasing sequence, then by assumption, there exists $\\tilde{x} \\in \\mathbb{R}^n$ such that"}, {"bbox": [576, 824, 1385, 863], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\Phi(\\tilde{x}) \\le \\Phi(x^k) \\text{ for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \\dots \\quad (4.18) $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 893, 740, 929], "category": "Text", "text": "It is observed that $0 < \\alpha_k \\le 1$ for all $k$, so"}, {"bbox": [281, 949, 1310, 1095], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\begin{aligned} \\|x^{k+1} - x^k\\|^2 &\\le \\frac{1}{\\alpha_k} \\|x^{k+1} - x^k\\|^2 \\quad \\text{for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \\dots \\\\ &\\le \\frac{1}{\\alpha_k} \\|\\alpha_k t^k\\|^2 = \\alpha_k \\|t^k\\|^2 \\quad \\text{for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \\dots \\quad (\\because x^{k+1} = x^k + \\alpha_k t^k). \\end{aligned} $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 1113, 1073, 1150], "category": "Text", "text": "Therefore, by above inequality, (4.18), and Lemma (4.5) we obtained"}, {"bbox": [561, 1173, 1033, 1268], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\sum_{k=0}^{\\infty} \\|x^{k+1} - x^k\\|^2 \\le \\sum_{k=0}^{\\infty} \\alpha_k \\|t^k\\|^2 < \\infty. $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 1289, 284, 1322], "category": "Text", "text": "Thus,"}, {"bbox": [651, 1318, 1385, 1410], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\sum_{k=0}^{\\infty} \\|x^{k+1} - x^k\\|^2 < \\infty. \\quad (4.19) $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 1422, 1385, 1500], "category": "Text", "text": "Let us define $\\tilde{L} = \\{x \\in \\mathbb{R}^n : \\Phi(x) \\le \\Phi(x^k), k = 0, 1, 2, \\dots\\}$. By the component-wise convexity of $\\Phi$ and Lemma 4.3, for any $x \\in \\tilde{L}$ we have"}, {"bbox": [403, 1521, 1191, 1566], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\|x - x^{k+1}\\|^2 \\le \\|x - x^k\\|^2 + \\|x^k - x^{k+1}\\|^2 \\quad \\text{for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \\dots. $$"}, {"bbox": [206, 1588, 1385, 1773], "category": "Text", "text": "As $\\tilde{L}$ is non empty because $\\tilde{x} \\in \\tilde{L}$, by (4.19) and the above inequality, it follows that $\\{x^k\\}$ is quasi-Fejer convergent to the set $\\tilde{L}$. Then by Theorem 2.4, $\\{x^k\\}$ is bounded and hence $\\{x^k\\}$ has an accumulation point. Let $x^*$ be one of them. Then by Lemma 4.4, $x^* \\in \\tilde{L}$. Then by Theorem 2.4, we observe that $\\{x^k\\}$ converges to $x^*$. Therefore, by Theorem 3.3, $x^*$ is a critical point, and hence $\\mathbb{R}^m$-convexity implies that $x^*$ is a weak Pareto optimal solution for $\\Phi$. □"}]