[{"bbox": [136, 137, 375, 169], "category": "Text", "text": "quantized spectrum:"}, {"bbox": [156, 192, 780, 358], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\n\\begin{align}\n\\hat{S}_0(\\mathbf{k}) &= \\tau^z & \\hat{Q}_0 &= \\sum_{\\mathbf{k}} d_{\\mathbf{k}}^{\\dagger} \\hat{S}_0(\\mathbf{k}) d_{\\mathbf{k}} \\nonumber \\\\\n\\hat{S}_1(\\mathbf{k}) &= \\cos k_z \\tau^z + \\sin k_z \\tau^x & \\hat{Q}_1 &= \\sum_{\\mathbf{k}} d_{\\mathbf{k}}^{\\dagger} \\hat{S}_1(\\mathbf{k}) d_{\\mathbf{k}} \\tag{10}\n\\end{align}\n$$"}, {"bbox": [136, 355, 783, 620], "category": "Text", "text": "The first is the usual $U(1)$ symmetry, while the second is composed of Kitaev Majorana chains [16] along z-axis wires. These generators do not commute, instead they generate an infinite-dimensional Lie algebra known as the Onsager algebra, introduced in [17]. This algebra has recently appeared in the study of the 1+1D chiral anomaly on the lattice [18, 19], and offers another route to defining exact symmetries on the lattice giving anomalous symmetries in the IR."}, {"bbox": [136, 620, 783, 719], "category": "Text", "text": "We can actually write a Hamiltonian that has this symmetry and two Weyl nodes, which in the BdG formalism above (using the $d_k^\\dagger$ basis) is"}, {"bbox": [172, 740, 780, 911], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\nh_{\\text{double Weyl}}^{\\text{BdG}}(\\mathbf{k}) = \\mathbf{1}_{\\tau} \\otimes \\frac{1}{2} \\left[ \\sin k_x \\sigma^x + \\sin k_y \\sigma^z + [\\cos k_z - \\cos K + m(\\mathbf{k})] \\sigma^y \\right] , \\quad (11)\n$$"}, {"bbox": [136, 936, 783, 1056], "category": "Text", "text": "where the identity in the $\\tau$ basis ensures it has both $U(1)$ symmetries, $K$ is a parameter, and $m(\\mathbf{k})$ is the same as in (3). This model is a magnetic Weyl semimetal model that has the two Weyl nodes at $\\mathbf{k} = \\pm \\mathbf{K}$ where $\\mathbf{K} = (0, 0, K)$."}, {"bbox": [163, 1056, 698, 1087], "category": "Text", "text": "Let's linearize around the Weyl nodes. We get"}, {"bbox": [186, 1109, 780, 1173], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\nh_l^{\\text{BdG}} = \\mathbf{1}_\\tau \\otimes \\frac{1}{2} (k_x \\sigma^x + k_y \\sigma^z - \\sin K k_z \\sigma^y). \\quad (12)\n$$"}, {"bbox": [136, 1190, 783, 1281], "category": "Text", "text": "This shows that for $K \\neq 0, \\pi$, the two Weyl nodes have an opposite handedness. To figure out the effect of $\\hat{S}_1(\\mathbf{k})$ at low energy, we can also linearize it, and obtain"}, {"bbox": [279, 1302, 780, 1340], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\n\\hat{S}_{1,K}(\\mathbf{k}) = \\cos K \\tau^z + \\sin K \\tau^x. \\quad (13)\n$$"}, {"bbox": [136, 1364, 783, 1422], "category": "Text", "text": "The important feature for $K \\neq 0, \\pi$ is that the second term is non-zero."}, {"bbox": [136, 1420, 783, 1781], "category": "Text", "text": "Thus, together with $\\hat{S}_0 = \\tau^z$, these generate an $su(2)$ algebra acting on the low energy theory. Note that $\\tau^x$ acts by exchanging particles at **K** with holes at $-**K**$. Thus, it is convenient to apply a charge conjugation the right-handed Weyl fermion, to give a low energy theory in terms of two left-handed Weyl fermions, now with *opposite* charge w.r.t. $\\tau^z$ rotations. $\\tau^x$ rotations meanwhile act by a flavor rotation exchanging the two Weyl fermions. Thus, our symmetry generators $\\hat{Q}_0, \\hat{Q}_1$ correspond to two $su(2)$ generators in the flavor symmetry of the low energy, at an angle of $K$. For $K \\neq 0, \\pi$, they thus generate the whole chiral symmetry."}, {"bbox": [136, 1781, 783, 1870], "category": "Text", "text": "We can demonstrate that this symmetry protects the gapless Weyl points. To do so, we must break translation symmetry, since otherwise z-axis translations also"}, {"bbox": [822, 137, 1469, 380], "category": "Text", "text": "act as a discrete axial symmetry and help to stabilize the Weyl nodes [12, 13]. To analyze translation-symmetry breaking, we consider an extended basis $e_k \\equiv (c_{k-\\mathbf{K}}, c_{-\\mathbf{k}+\\mathbf{K}}^\\dagger, c_{k+\\mathbf{K}}, c_{-\\mathbf{k}-\\mathbf{K}}^\\dagger)^T$ (we suppress the spin component). Hamiltonians in this basis may couple states at $\\mathbf{k}$ with $\\mathbf{k} + 2\\mathbf{K}$ but are automatically $\\hat{Q}_0$ preserving. In this basis the symmetry action of $\\hat{Q}_1$ becomes"}, {"bbox": [836, 403, 1469, 512], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\n\\begin{equation}\n\\begin{split}\nU(1)_{\\hat{Q}_1} : \\delta e_k ={}& i(\\cos k_z \\cos K \\tau^z + \\sin k_z \\sin K \\eta^z \\tau^z \\\\\n& \\qquad + \\sin k_z \\cos K \\tau^x - \\cos k_z \\sin K \\eta^z \\tau^x) e_k,\n\\end{split}\n\\tag{14}\n\\end{equation}\n$$"}, {"bbox": [822, 539, 1469, 778], "category": "Text", "text": "which prohibits all mass terms except $m_j(\\mathbf{k})\\eta^z\\sigma^j$. However, these terms always commute with at least one term in the original Hamiltonian, so the result is a shift in the gapless modes rather than a gap. At a large enough perturbation, we can move the modes until $K=0$ or $\\pi$, where the symmetry generators are aligned and no longer generate the whole $SU(2)$ symmetry. At these special points, we will be able to open a symmetric gap."}, {"bbox": [841, 838, 1449, 893], "category": "Section-header", "text": "IV. TIME REVERSAL SYMMETRIC SINGLE\nWEYL FERMION IN 3+1D"}, {"bbox": [822, 931, 1469, 1257], "category": "Text", "text": "So far, we have considered time-reversal breaking mod-\nels. We can also construct time-reversal invariant mod-\nels, at the cost of making the symmetry generator slightly\nmore not-on-site. As long as $S(\\mathbf{k})$ is a smooth function\nof the momentum, then the charge density in real space\nwill be a sum of terms with faster-than-polynomial de-\ncay. Such “almost-local” operators share many proper-\nties with local operators, while being closed under Hamil-\ntonian evolution generated by such terms [20, 21]. This\nwill allow us to employ bump functions and partitions of\nunity in momentum space."}, {"bbox": [822, 1257, 1469, 1410], "category": "Text", "text": "To construct a time-reversal invariant model with a\nsingle protected Weyl fermion, we begin with a model on\na cubic lattice with eight Weyl nodes. We use the BdG\nformalism with the basis $d_k^\\dagger \\equiv (c_{k\\uparrow}^\\dagger, c_{k\\downarrow}^\\dagger, c_{-k\\uparrow}, c_{-k\\downarrow})$ used\nabove, giving the Hamiltonian"}, {"bbox": [849, 1431, 1469, 1495], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\nh_8^{\\text{BdG}}(\\mathbf{k}) = \\frac{1}{2} [\\sin k_x \\sigma^x + \\sin k_y \\sigma^z + \\sin k_z \\tau^z \\sigma^y]. \\quad (15)\n$$"}, {"bbox": [822, 1513, 1469, 1634], "category": "Text", "text": "This model has Weyl nodes at all eight time-reversal-\ninvariant-momentum (TRIM) points of the Brillouin\nzone, as well as a time-reversal symmetry $\\Theta = i\\sigma^y K$,\nwhere $K$ is complex conjugation, satisfying $\\Theta^2 = -1$."}, {"bbox": [822, 1632, 1469, 1753], "category": "Text", "text": "We will now add a $U(1)$ symmetry-breaking term that\nwill gap out all Weyl nodes except the one at $\\mathbf{k} = \\mathbf{0}$.\nIn order to facilitate our discussion, let us first define a\nbump function $B(k)$ given by"}, {"bbox": [940, 1776, 1469, 1864], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$\nB(\\mathbf{k}, w) = \\begin{cases} e^{-\\frac{w^2}{|\\mathbf{k}|^2 - w^2}} & \\text{for } |\\mathbf{k}| < w \\\\ 0 & \\text{for } |\\mathbf{k}| \\ge w \\end{cases} \\quad (16)\n$$"}]