[{"bbox": [298, 180, 1215, 298], "category": "Text", "text": "around 2000 due to the studies of quantum computers. As well known, Grover's algorithm can find targets much faster than the corresponding classical algorithm, and it can be considered as a quantum walk on a graph [4]. For database search in quantum computers, quantum walks have been focused on in quantum informations [5]."}, {"bbox": [298, 298, 1215, 530], "category": "Text", "text": "The major study in quantum walks is their finding probabilities and they have been investigated numerically or analytically. Analytic researches have resulted in long-time limit theorems in mathematics. The limit theorems are useful to understand how the quantum walkers distribute in space after they have repeated their unitary processes a lot of times. The first limit theorem was proved in 2002 and it stated a long-time limit distribution which was different from the limit distributions of classical random walks [6]. Since then, many limit theorems have been demonstrated and they told us interesting behavior of quantum walks [7]."}, {"bbox": [298, 530, 1215, 852], "category": "Text", "text": "In 2015, a remarkable behavior was discovered [8]. A quantum walk held a gap in distribution and the walker was never observed around the launching location. After the paper had been published, two types of quantum walk were reported and they also had a gap in distribution. One of them was a 3-state quantum walk in 2006 and its probability distribution showed a gap and localization [9]. The other was a 2-state walk in 2018 and its model was complicated [10]. Motivated by the quantum walk in 2018, we try to seek a simpler model which makes a probability distribution with a gap. We define a quantum walk in the next section and numerically observe its probability distribution. Since the numerical experiments let us expect that the quantum walk distributes with a gap, we will work on limit distributions in Sect. 3 so that the quantum walk is proved to hold a gap in distribution."}, {"bbox": [298, 882, 840, 920], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## 2 Definition of a quantum walk"}, {"bbox": [298, 940, 1215, 1116], "category": "Text", "text": "The quantum walker with two coin states $|0\\rangle$ and $|1\\rangle$ is supposed to locate at points, whose set is represented by $\\mathbb{Z} = \\{0, \\pm 1, \\pm 2, \\dots\\}$, in superposition. Its system is described on a tensor Hilbert space $\\mathcal{H}_p \\otimes \\mathcal{H}_c$. The Hilbert space $\\mathcal{H}_p$ represents the locations and it is spanned by the orthogonal normalized basis $\\{|x\\rangle : x \\in \\mathbb{Z}\\}$. Also, the Hilbert space $\\mathcal{H}_c$ represents the coin states and it is spanned by the orthogonal normalized basis $\\{|0\\rangle, |1\\rangle\\}$. Let us define"}, {"bbox": [629, 1141, 1215, 1208], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$|0\\rangle = \\begin{bmatrix} 1 \\\\ 0 \\end{bmatrix}, \\quad |1\\rangle = \\begin{bmatrix} 0 \\\\ 1 \\end{bmatrix}, \\qquad (1)$$"}, {"bbox": [298, 1230, 1215, 1377], "category": "Text", "text": "for the Hilbert space $\\mathcal{H}_c$ in this paper. Given two unitary operations, the coin states and the position states of the walker are operated with them. More precisely, the system of quantum walk at time $t (= 0, 1, 2, \\dots)$, represented by $|\\Psi_t\\rangle \\in \\mathcal{H}_p \\otimes \\mathcal{H}_c$, gets a new system at time $t + 1$, represented by $|\\Psi_{t+1}\\rangle \\in \\mathcal{H}_p \\otimes \\mathcal{H}_c$, with unitary operations $U_1$ and $U_2$,"}, {"bbox": [646, 1375, 1215, 1407], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$|\\Psi_{t+1}\\rangle = U_2 U_1 |\\Psi_t\\rangle, \\qquad (2)$$"}]