[{"bbox": [311, 147, 1143, 182], "category": "Page-header", "text": "MIGUEL A. CARDONA, DIEGO A. MEJÍA, AND ANDRÉS F. URIBE-ZAPATA"}, {"bbox": [169, 202, 1285, 298], "category": "Text", "text": "$\\sigma(i') = 1$ for some $i' \\in J$, then $\\Xi_1(b_{i'}^{\\sigma(i')}) = \\Xi_1(\\sim b_{i'}) = 0$, so $\\Xi(g(\\sigma) \\wedge \\bigwedge_{i \\in J} b_i^{\\sigma(i)}) = 0$. In conclusion, $\\Xi(a) = \\Xi_0(g(\\sigma^0))$, where $\\sigma^0$ is the constant map onto 0. □3.15"}, {"bbox": [169, 320, 1285, 736], "category": "Text", "text": "We wonder whether the results of this section are valid when restricting to fams with the uap. These are not in general. For example, let $a \\subseteq \\omega$ be the set of even numbers, $\\mathcal{B} := \\mathcal{P}(\\omega)$, let $\\mathcal{B}_0$ be the field of sets over $\\omega$ generated by $a$ and let $F \\subseteq \\mathcal{P}(\\omega)$ be the filter of subsets of $\\omega$ containing $\\{0, 1\\}$. Let $\\Xi_0$ be the (unique) probability measure on $\\mathcal{B}$ such that $\\Xi(a) = \\frac{2}{3}$ (which is clearly uniformly supported). By Theorem 3.15, there is a unique probability fam $\\Xi$ on $\\langle \\mathcal{B}_0 \\cup F \\rangle$ extending $\\Xi_0$ such that $\\Xi(b) = 1$ for all $b \\in F$, in particular, $\\Xi(\\{0, 1\\}) = 1$. Then, $\\Xi(\\{0\\}) = \\Xi(a \\cap \\{0, 1\\}) = \\Xi_0(a) = \\frac{2}{3}$ and, naturally, $\\Xi(\\{1\\}) = \\frac{1}{3}$. However, $\\Xi$ cannot have the uap because no singleton can have measure $\\frac{2}{3}$ under a probability fam with the uap (by Theorem 2.18). This also shows that Theorem 3.8 is not valid in general when restricting to the uap: both $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_F$ are uniformly supported, but any common extension extends $\\Xi$ and thus cannot have the uap."}, {"bbox": [169, 747, 1150, 782], "category": "Text", "text": "We can validate Theorem 3.15 to fams with the uap under further conditions."}, {"bbox": [169, 798, 1285, 869], "category": "Text", "text": "**Theorem 3.16.** In Theorem 3.15, assume that $\\mathcal{B} = \\mathcal{P}(X)$ and that $\\mathcal{B}_0$ contains all the finite subsets of $X$. If $\\Xi_0$ has the uap, then so does $\\Xi$. Likewise for \"uniformly supported\"."}, {"bbox": [169, 896, 1285, 1036], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* If all finite sets have $\\Xi_0$-measure zero, then the same is true for $\\Xi$. So assume that $\\Xi_0$ is uniformly supported with support $P$. Since $\\mathcal{B}_0$ contains all finite sets, all finite sets in $P$ with positive measure must be singletons (by minimality). It is not hard to show that $P$ is a support of $\\Xi$, so $\\Xi$ is uniformly supported. □3.16"}, {"bbox": [169, 1060, 1262, 1097], "category": "Text", "text": "Similarly, we can validate the extension results when adding one set to the subalgebra."}, {"bbox": [169, 1113, 1285, 1217], "category": "Text", "text": "**Lemma 3.17.** In the context of Lemma 3.11, assume that $\\mathcal{B} = \\mathcal{P}(X)$ and that $\\mathcal{C}$ contains all the singletons. Then, if $\\Xi$ has the uap, then $\\Xi'$ can be found with the uap. As a consequence, $\\Xi$ can be extended to a fam into $K$ with the uap on the whole $\\mathcal{P}(X)$."}, {"bbox": [169, 1228, 1285, 1297], "category": "Text", "text": "Here, \"uap\" can be replaced by \"uniformly supported\", even more, extensions of $\\Xi$ can be found with the same support."}, {"bbox": [169, 1325, 1285, 1465], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* The result is trivial when all singletons have $\\Xi$-measure zero. So assume that $\\Xi$ is uniformly supported. The argument in the proof of Lemma 3.11, when replacing $A$ by a support of $\\Xi$, allows to find a uniformly supported $\\Xi'$ with the same support as $\\Xi$. The rest follows by Zorn's Lemma. □3.17"}, {"bbox": [169, 1491, 1285, 1629], "category": "Text", "text": "We ask whether (iii) $\\Rightarrow$ (i) of Theorem 3.8 is valid when $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_1$ have the uap for finding $\\Xi$ with the uap, under the condition that both $\\mathcal{B}_0$ and $\\mathcal{B}_1$ contain all singletons. If, say, $\\Xi_0$ is free then $\\Xi_1$ and $\\Xi$ must be free, but we do not know how to obtain an uniformly supported $\\Xi$ when $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_1$ are uniformly supported."}, {"bbox": [169, 1644, 1285, 1782], "category": "Text", "text": "**Question 3.18.** Assume that $\\mathcal{B}_0$ and $\\mathcal{B}_1$ are fields of sets over $X$, containing all the singletons, and $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_1$ are uniformly supported fams with the uap on $\\mathcal{B}_0$ and $\\mathcal{B}_1$, respectively. Assume that $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_1$ are compatible (in the sense of Theorem 3.8 (iii)). Is there a uniformly supported fam that extends both $\\Xi_0$ and $\\Xi_1$?"}, {"bbox": [169, 1811, 1121, 1847], "category": "Text", "text": "A strategy to solve this problem may suggest a short proof of Theorem 3.8."}]