[{"bbox": [249, 231, 1345, 717], "category": "Picture"}, {"bbox": [412, 735, 1179, 769], "category": "Caption", "text": "Figure 12: The cycle C created by two distinct paths from $v'$ to $x'$"}, {"bbox": [200, 819, 1391, 893], "category": "Text", "text": "to it in $C$. Let $v_{i_l}y$ be one such chord; then we show that $y$ lies in $P(v'_1, x'_1)$ in the next claim."}, {"bbox": [202, 909, 627, 950], "category": "Text", "text": "**Claim 6.6.** *y lies in* $P(v'_1, x'_1)$."}, {"bbox": [202, 967, 1391, 1156], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* If $y$ does not lie in $P(v'_1, x'_1)$, then $y$ must lie in the path between $v_{i_l}$ and $x'_1$ (or the path between $v_{i_l}$ and $v'_1$). If it lies on the path between $v_{i_l}$ and $x'_1$ (resp. between $v_{i_l}$ and $v'_1$), then we have a path from $v_{i_l}$ to $x'$ (resp. between $v_{i_l}$ and $v'$) which has length smaller than $d(v_{i_l}, x')$ (resp. $d(v_{i_l}, v')$), which is a contradiction. Hence, $y$ lies in $P(v'_1, x'_1)$ (refer to Figure 12b). □"}, {"bbox": [202, 1175, 1391, 1439], "category": "Text", "text": "Note that $d(x'_1, y) \\ge d(x'_1, v_{i_l})$ and $d(v'_1, y) \\ge d(v'_1, v_{i_l})$. If not, then there exists a shorter or equal length path from $v'$ to $v_{i_l}$ (from $x'$ to $v_{i_l}$) that bypasses the edge $v_{i_l}v$ (resp. $v_{i_l}x$), which is a contradiction to the fact that the pair $v_{i_l}, v'$ (resp. $v_{i_l}, x'$) monitors the edge $v_{i_l}v$ (resp. $v_{i_l}x$). Hence $d_P(x'_1, v'_1) = d(x'_1, y) + d(y, v'_1) \\ge d(v'_1, v_{i_l}) + d(x'_1, v_{i_l})$, implying $d_P(x'_1, v'_1) = d(v'_1, v_{i_l}) + d(x'_1, v_{i_l})$. This implies that $d(x'_1, y) = d(x'_1, v_{i_l})$ and $d(v'_1, y) = d(v'_1, v_{i_l})$, which implies that the vertex $y$ is unique in $P(v'_1, x'_1)$. This fact together with Claim 6.6 implies that in $C$, $v_{i_l}$ is incident to exactly one chord."}, {"bbox": [202, 1445, 1391, 1594], "category": "Text", "text": "Now note that if $v$ and $y$ are not adjacent, then the induced 2-path $yv_{i_l}v$ is part of a chordless cycle of length at least 4, which is a contradiction. Hence $vy \\in E(G_{k+1})$. Similarly, it can be shown that $xy \\in E(G_{k+1})$. Hence $vv_{i_l}x$ is part of a 4-cycle $vv_{i_l}xyv$, which leads to a contradiction. Hence $v'$ and $x'$ monitor $vv_{i_l}$."}, {"bbox": [202, 1601, 1391, 1750], "category": "Text", "text": "Hence, until now, we showed that all edges in $E_l$ can be monitored by the vertices of $\\text{Man}(G_k) \\setminus \\{v_{i_l}\\}$. Hence, combining this fact with Claim 6.1 and 6.3, we can conclude that $\\text{Man}(G_{k+1})$ forms an optimal MEG set of $G_{k+1}$. Hence, $\\text{meg}(G) = |\\text{Man}(G)|$ for every strongly chordal graph $G$. □"}, {"bbox": [202, 1793, 716, 1831], "category": "Section-header", "text": "# 7. Conclusion and future aspects"}, {"bbox": [202, 1851, 1391, 1926], "category": "Text", "text": "In this paper, we solved the complexity status of the MIN-MEG problem for some well-known graph classes. Next, it will be interesting to address the following questions:"}]