[{"bbox": [472, 243, 1122, 270], "category": "Page-header", "text": "SHELUKHIN'S QUASIMORPHISM AND REZNIKOV'S CLASS"}, {"bbox": [326, 299, 1270, 452], "category": "Text", "text": "**Proposition 5.1.** Let $(M, \\omega)$ be a closed symplectic manifold. Assume that Shelukhin's quasimorphism $\\mathfrak{S}_M$ on $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ is not extendable to $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Symp}}_0^c(M, \\omega)$. Then $R_0 \\in \\operatorname{H}^2(\\operatorname{Symp}_0^c(M, \\omega))$ is non-zero. In particular, the Reznikov class $R \\in \\operatorname{H}^2(\\operatorname{Symp}^c(M, \\omega))$ is non-zero."}, {"bbox": [326, 468, 1269, 651], "category": "Text", "text": "Before proving the proposition, we discuss the vanishing of the Reznikov class in a more general setting. Let $M$ be a closed symplectic manifold. Let $\\widetilde{G}$ be a subgroup of $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Symp}}_0^c(M, \\omega)$ which contains $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ and set $G = p(\\widetilde{G})$, where $p: \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Symp}}_0^c(M, \\omega) \\to \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Symp}}_0^c(M, \\omega)$ is the universal covering map. Consider the following commutative diagram:"}, {"bbox": [539, 665, 1052, 833], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ \\begin{tikzcd}[column sep=2.8em, row sep=2.8em]\n\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega) \\arrow[r, \"\\tilde{i}_0\"] \\arrow[d, \"p\"] & \\widetilde{G} \\arrow[r, \"\\tilde{i}_1\"] \\arrow[d, \"p\"] & \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Symp}}_0^c(M, \\omega) \\arrow[d, \"p\"] \\\\\n\\operatorname{Ham}^c(M, \\omega) \\arrow[r, \"i_0\"] & \\widetilde{G} \\arrow[r, \"i_1\"] & \\operatorname{Symp}_0^c(M, \\omega).\n\\end{tikzcd} $$"}, {"bbox": [326, 846, 810, 889], "category": "Text", "text": "Here $\\tilde{i}_0, \\tilde{i}_1, i_0$ and $i_1$ are the inclusions."}, {"bbox": [326, 905, 864, 939], "category": "Text", "text": "**Lemma 5.2.** The following are equivalent."}, {"bbox": [326, 944, 649, 981], "category": "List-item", "text": "(1) $i_1^* R_0 \\in \\operatorname{H}^2(G)$ is zero."}, {"bbox": [326, 976, 962, 1019], "category": "List-item", "text": "(2) There exists $\\phi \\in \\operatorname{Q}(G)$ such that $\\tilde{i}_0^* p^* \\phi = \\mathfrak{S}_M$."}, {"bbox": [326, 1033, 1269, 1170], "category": "Text", "text": "*Proof.* To prove that (1) implies (2), we assume that $i_1^* R_0 = 0$. Recall that $b_J$ is a cocycle representing the Reznikov class. Then there exists $u \\in \\operatorname{C}^1(G)$ such that $i_1^* b_J = \\delta u$. Since $b_J$ is a bounded cocycle, $u$ is a quasimorphism. Recall from (2.4) that $-\\delta \\nu_J = p^* i_0^* i_1^* b_J$. Hence we have"}, {"bbox": [554, 1177, 1039, 1222], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ -\\delta \\nu_J = p^* i_0^* \\delta u = \\delta(p^* i_0^* u) = \\delta(\\tilde{i}_0^* p^* u). $$"}, {"bbox": [326, 1229, 1269, 1355], "category": "Text", "text": "This implies that $\\nu_J + \\tilde{i}_0^* p^* u: \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega) \\to \\mathbb{R}$ is a homomorphism. Because $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ is perfect ([Ban78]), we have $\\nu_J = -\\tilde{i}_0^* p^* u$. Let $\\phi$ be the homogenization of $-u$. Then we have $\\mathfrak{S}_M = \\tilde{i}_0^* p^* \\phi$."}, {"bbox": [326, 1353, 1269, 1467], "category": "Text", "text": "To prove that (2) implies (1), we assume (2) and take $\\phi \\in \\operatorname{Q}(G)$ satisfying $\\tilde{i}_0^* p^* \\phi = \\mathfrak{S}_M$. Since $\\mathfrak{S}_M$ is the homogenization of $\\nu_J$, there exists a bounded function $v: \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega) \\to \\mathbb{R}$ such that $\\mathfrak{S}_M = \\nu_J + v$. Then we have"}, {"bbox": [474, 1475, 1120, 1519], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ -\\delta \\nu_J = -\\delta(\\mathfrak{S}_M - v) = \\delta v - \\delta \\tilde{i}_0^* p^* \\phi = \\delta v - p^* i_0^* \\delta \\phi. $$"}, {"bbox": [326, 1527, 833, 1566], "category": "Text", "text": "Together with $-\\delta \\nu_J = p^* i_0^* i_1^* b_J$, we have"}, {"bbox": [662, 1573, 929, 1612], "category": "Formula", "text": "$$ p^* i_0^* (i_1^* b_J + \\delta \\phi) = \\delta v. $$"}, {"bbox": [326, 1620, 1280, 1811], "category": "Text", "text": "Note that $i_1^* b_J + \\delta \\phi$ is a bounded cocycle on $G$. Since $v$ is a bounded function, the second bounded cohomology class $p^* i_0^* [i_1^* b_J + \\delta \\phi]$ of $\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ is zero. Since $G/\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ is abelian, the bounded cohomology $\\operatorname{H}_b^2(G/\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega))$ is zero. In particular, the map $i_0^*: \\operatorname{H}_b^2(G) \\to \\operatorname{H}_b^2(\\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega))$ is injective by (2.2). Moreover, since $p: \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega) \\to \\widetilde{\\operatorname{Ham}}^c(M, \\omega)$ is surjective, the map"}]