*Proof.* Let *S* be the generating set associated with *D* as described in Proposition 2.5. By the circulant diagonalization theorem, the spectrum of *GR*(*D*) = Γ(*R*, *S*) is the multiset {*λg*}*g*∈*<sup>R</sup>* where

$$\lambda\_{\mathcal{S}} = \sum\_{\mathbf{s} \in \mathcal{S}} \mathfrak{J}\_n^{\psi(\mathcal{gs})} = \sum\_{i=1}^k \left[ \sum\_{\mathbf{s}, \mathbf{R} \mathbf{s} = \mathcal{Z}\_i} \mathfrak{J}\_n^{\psi(\mathcal{gs})} \right].$$

We remark that by Corollary 2.7, if *s* ∈ *R* such that *Rs* = I*<sup>i</sup>* = *Rx<sup>i</sup>* then *s* has a unique representation of the form *s* = *ux*ˆ *<sup>i</sup>* where *u* ∈ (*R*/Ann*R*(*xi*))<sup>×</sup> and *u*ˆ is a fixed lift of *u* to *R* <sup>×</sup>. With this presentation, we can write

$$\sum\_{s, \mathbf{R} = \mathbb{Z}\_i} \zeta\_n^{\psi(\mathbf{g}s)} = \sum\_{u \in (\mathbb{R}/\mathbf{Ann}\_\mathbb{R}(\mathbf{x}\_l))^\times} \zeta\_n^{\psi(\mathbf{gux}\_l)} = \sum\_{u \in (\mathbb{R}/\mathbf{Ann}\_\mathbb{R}(\mathbf{x}\_l))^\times} \zeta\_n^{\psi\_{\mathbf{x}\_l}(\mathbf{g}u)} = c(\mathbf{g}, \mathbb{R}/\mathbf{Ann}\_\mathbb{R}(\mathbf{x}\_l)).$$

Here we recall that *ψx<sup>i</sup>* is the induced linear functional on *R*/Ann*R*(*xi*). We conclude that *λ<sup>g</sup>* = ∑ *k i*=1 *c*(*g*, *R*/Ann*R*(*xi*)). □

The following corollary is simple yet important for our future work on perfect state transfers on gcd-graphs.

**Corollary 4.17.** *Suppose that g*′ = *ug for some u* ∈ *R* <sup>×</sup>. *Then λ<sup>g</sup>* = *λ<sup>g</sup>* ′ .

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We thank the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Lake Forest College for their generous financial support through an Overleaf subscription. We also thank Jan Min ´ a´c for his constant encouragement and support. ˇ

## REFERENCES

- 1. Reza Akhtar, Megan Boggess, Tiffany Jackson-Henderson, Isidora Jimenez, Rachel Karpman, ´ Amanda Kinzel, and Dan Pritikin, *On the unitary Cayley graph of a finite ring*, Electron. J. Combin. **16** (2009), no. 1, Research Paper 117, 13 pages.
- 2. Milan Basiˇ c, Aleksandar Ili ´ c, and Aleksandar Stamenkovi ´ c,´ *Maximal diameter of integral circulant graphs*, Information and Computation **301** (2024), 105208.
- 3. Maria Chudnovsky, Michal Cizek, Logan Crew, Jan Min ´ a´c, Tung T. Nguyen, Sophie Spirkl, and ˇ Nguyen Duy T ˆ an, ˆ *On prime Cayley graphs*, arXiv:2401.06062, to appear in Journal of Combinatorics (2024).
- 4. Thomas Honold, *Characterization of finite frobenius rings*, Archiv der Mathematik **76** (2001), no. 6, 406– 415.
- 5. Irving Kaplansky, *Elementary divisors and modules*, Transactions of the American Mathematical Society **66** (1949), no. 2, 464–491.
- 6. Walter Klotz and Torsten Sander, *Some properties of unitary Cayley graphs*, The Electronic Journal of Combinatorics **14** (2007), no. 1, R45, 12 pages.
- 7. Erich Lamprecht, *Allgemeine theorie der Gaußschen Summen in endlichen kommutativen Ringen*, Mathematische Nachrichten **9** (1953), no. 3, 149–196.
- 8. Jan Min ´ a´c, Tung T Nguyen, and Nguyen Duy T ˇ an, ˆ *Isomorphic gcd-graphs over polynomial rings*, arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01768 (2024).
- 9. , *On the gcd graphs over polynomial rings*, arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.01929 (2024).