shares of common stock, the price we paid to redeem shares of our common stock or NAV-based fees we paid to the Advisor and the Dealer Manager to the extent such valuations prove to not accurately reflect the true estimate of value and are not a precise measure of realizable value. Because the price you will pay for shares of our common stock in the offering, and the price at which your shares may be redeemed by us pursuant to our share redemption program, are generally based on our estimated NAV per share, you may pay more than realizable value or receive less than realizable value for your investment.

## In order to disclose a monthly NAV, we are reliant on the parties that we engage for that purpose, in particular the Independent Valuation Advisor and the appraisers that we hire to value and appraise our real estate portfolio.

In order to disclose a monthly NAV, our board of directors, including a majority of our independent directors, has adopted valuation procedures that contain a comprehensive set of methodologies to be used in connection with the calculation of our NAV. including the engagement of independent third parties such as the Independent Valuation Advisor, to value our real estate portfolio on a monthly basis, and independent appraisal firms, to provide periodic appraisals with respect to our properties. We have also engaged a firm to act as the NAV Accountant and may engage other independent third parties or our Advisor to value other assets or liabilities. Although our board of directors, with the assistance of the Advisor, oversees all of these parties and the reasonableness of their work product, we will not independently verify our NAV or the components thereof, such as the appraised values of our properties. Our management's assessment of the market values of our properties may also differ from the appraised values of our properties as determined by the Independent Valuation Advisor. If the parties engaged by us to determine our monthly NAV are unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to us, our NAV could be inaccurate or unavailable, and we could decide to suspend any ongoing securities offering and our share redemption program.

## Our NAV is not subject to GAAP, is not independently audited and involves subjective judgments by the Independent Valuation Advisor and other parties involved in valuing our assets and liabilities.

Our valuation procedures and our NAV are not subject to GAAP and are not subject to independent audit. Additionally, we are dependent on our Advisor to be reasonably aware of material events specific to our properties (such as tenant disputes, damage, litigation and environmental issues) that may cause the value of a property to change materially and to promptly notify the Independent Valuation Advisor so that the information may be reflected in our real estate portfolio valuation. In addition, the implementation and coordination of our valuation procedures include certain subjective judgments of our Advisor, such as whether the Independent Valuation Advisor should be notified of events specific to our properties that could affect their valuations, as well as of the Independent Valuation Advisor and other parties we engage, as to whether adjustments to asset and liability valuations are appropriate. Accordingly, our stockholders must rely entirely on our board of directors to adopt appropriate valuation procedures and on the Independent Valuation Advisor and other parties we engage in order to arrive at our NAV, which may not correspond to realizable value upon a sale of our assets.

## No rule or regulation requires that we calculate our NAV in a certain way, and our board of directors, including a majority of our independent directors, may adopt changes to the valuation procedures.

There are no existing rules or regulatory bodies that specifically govern the manner in which we calculate our NAV. As a result, it is important that our stockholders pay particular attention to the specific methodologies and assumptions we will use to calculate our NAV. Other public REITs may use different methodologies or assumptions to determine their NAV. In addition, each year our board of directors, including a majority of our independent directors, will review the appropriateness of our valuation procedures and may, at any time, adopt changes to the valuation procedures. If we acquire real property assets as a portfolio, we may pay a premium over the amount that we would pay for the assets individually. See our valuation procedures, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for more details regarding our valuation methodologies, assumptions and procedures.

## Our NAV per share may suddenly change if the valuations of our properties materially change from prior valuations or the actual operating results or observed market transactions materially differ from what we originally budgeted.

It is possible that the annual appraisals of our properties may not be spread evenly throughout the year and may differ from the most recent monthly valuation. As such, when these appraisals are reflected in our Independent Valuation Advisor's valuation of our real estate portfolio, there may be a sudden change in our NAV per share for each class of our common stock. Property valuation changes can occur for a variety of reasons, such as local real estate market conditions, market lease assumptions, rotation of different thirdparty appraisal firms, the financial condition of our customers, or leasing activity. For example, due to rapidly changing market conditions, such as tenant demand and resulting rental rates, the valuation of the underlying properties correspondingly may change suddenly. Such a valuation change can be particularly significant when closer to a lease expiration, especially for single tenant buildings or where an individual tenant