## **Table of Contents**

from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for two years after the adviser or certain of its executives or employees makes a contribution to certain elected officials or candidates. If the Adviser or its affiliates or any service provider acting on its behalf, fails to comply with such laws, regulations or policies, such non-compliance could have an adverse effect on the Adviser, and thus. us.

## There are risks associated with any potential merger with or purchase of assets of another fund.

The Adviser may in the future recommend to our Board of Directors that we merge with or acquire all or substantially all of the assets of one or more funds including a fund that could be managed by the Adviser or its affiliates (including another BDC). We do not expect that the Adviser would recommend any such merger or asset purchase unless it determines that it would be in the best interest of us and our Stockholders, with such determination dependent on factors it deems relevant, which may include our historical and projected financial performance and any proposed merger partner, portfolio composition, potential synergies from the merger or asset sale, available alternative options and market conditions. In addition, no such merger or asset purchase would be consummated absent the meeting of various conditions required by applicable law or contract, at such time, which may include approval of the board of directors and common equity holders of both funds. If the Adviser is the investment adviser of both funds, various conflicts of interest would exist with respect to any such transaction. Such conflicts of interest may potentially arise from, among other things, differences between the compensation payable to the Adviser by us and by the entity resulting from such a merger or asset purchase or efficiencies or other benefits to the Adviser as a result of managing a single, larger fund instead of two separate funds.

## Our Administrator can resign from its role as Administrator under the Administration Agreement, and a suitable replacement may not be found, resulting in disruptions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our Administrator has the right to resign under the Administration Agreement upon 60 days' written notice, whether a replacement has been found or not. If our Administrator resigns, it may be difficult to find a new administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If a replacement is not found quickly, our business, results of operations and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected and the value of our Common Stock may decline. Even if a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services are retained, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

## Any sub-administrator that the Administrator engages to assist the Administrator in fulfilling its responsibilities could resign from its role as sub-administrator, and a suitable replacement may not be found, resulting in disruptions that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our Administrator has the right under the Administration Agreement to enter into one or more sub-administration agreements with other administrators (each a "Sub-Administrator") pursuant to which the Administrator may obtain the services of the Sub-Administrator(s) to assist the Administrator in fulfilling its responsibilities under the Administration Agreement. If any such Sub-Administrator resigns, it may be difficult to find a new Sub-Administrator or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms, or at all. If a replacement is not found quickly, our business, results of operations and financial condition are likely to be adversely affected and the value of our Common Stock may decline. Even if a comparable service provider or individuals to perform such services are retained, whether internal or external, their integration into our business and lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

55