## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Section 3: Capital Expenditure, Operating Assets and Restoration Obligations 3.4 RESTORATION OBLIGATIONS ovisions for future removal and environmental restoration costs are recognised where there is a present obligation as a result of explication, development, production, transportation or storage activities having been undertaken, and it is probable that future outflow of eq nomic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. The estimated future obligations include the costs of removing facilities, doning wells and restoring the affected areas and is the best estimate of the present value of the future expenditure required to. settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date, based on current legal requirements. Any changes in the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration provision at the reporting date, with a corresponding change in the cost of the associated asset. n th event the restoration provision is reduced, the cost of the related oil and gas asset is reduced by an amount not exceeding its arry If the decrease in restoration provision exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately income statement as other income. amount of the provision for future restoration costs relating to exploration, development and production facilities is capitalised and epic ed as a component of the cost of those activities. Significant judgement - Provision for restoration ТЪ The Group estimates the future removal and restoration costs of oil and gas production facilities, wells, pipelines and related assets at the time of installation of the assets and reviews these assessments periodically. In most instances the removal of these assets will occur many years in the future. The estimate of future removal costs therefore requires management to make judgements regarding the removal date, future environmental legislation and the extent of restoration activities required. e Group has recorded provisions for restoration obligations as follows: (Restated) 2016 2015 **US\$million** US\$million 69 52 Gurrent provision Non-current provision 1,399 1.726 1.468 1.778 ements in the provision during the financial year are set out below: Total restoration **US\$million** Palance at 1 January 2016 1,778 impact of changes in future restoration assumptions – restoration asset $(18)$ Impact of changes in future restoration assumptions - other income (37) Provisions used during the year (25) ∐nwind of discount 41 isposal of provision $(56)$ hange in discount rate (111) ransferred to liabilities held for sale (99) Exchange differences (5) Balance at 31 December 2016 1,468

Payments made into escrow accounts relating to future restoration obligations included in the table above of \$62 million (2015: \$52 million) are included within other non-current financial assets (note 5.5(f)).

## Her provisions

0

addition to the provision for restoration shown above and employee provisions in note 7.1, other items for which a provision has been recorded are other current provisions \$7 million (2015: \$13 million), and other non-current provisions \$52 million (2015: nil).