We may refer to the triple (C, A, just as C if the comultiplication and counit are understood. We shall occasionally use the Sweedler notation and write A(c) = >; C(1); & C(2); simply as:

$$\Delta(c) = \sum\_{(c)} c\_{(1)} \otimes c\_{(2)} \in C \otimes C.$$

We say C is cocommutative if r o △ = △, where 7: C & C > C & C swap the terms, i.e., 7 (c & c. In other words, C is cocommutative if for all c E C:

$$\sum\_{\text{(c)}} c\_{\text{(1)}} \otimes c\_{\text{(2)}} = \sum\_{\text{(c)}} c\_{\text{(2)}} \otimes c\_{\text{(1)}}.$$

A homomorphism of coalgebras (C, △c, Ec) -> (D, △p, ED) consists of a k-linear homomorphism f : C -> D such that △D of = (f of ) o f ) o f ) o f ) o f ) o denote by coAlg, the induced category of k-coalgebras with coalgebra homomorphisms. Notice that coAlg, is equivalent to Alg(Vect)"), the category of algebra objects in Vect .

Definition 2.2. A k-bialgebra H is a k-vector space H together with a k-coalgebra structure (H, L, e) and a k-algebra structure (H,u,n) such that △: H → H & H and c: H → k are algebra homomorphisms (or equivalently, µ: H & H -> H are coalgebra homomorphisms). We say H is commutative if it is commutative as an algebra, and we say H is cocommutative if it is cocommutative as a coalgebra. We say H is a Hopf algebra if there exists a k-linear function S: H -> H (necessarily unique) such that μο(id & S) ο Δ = η ο ε = μ ο (S & id) ο Δ.

Definition 2.3. Given a k-coalgebra C, a right C-comodule (M, p) consists of a k-vector space M together with a k-linear homomorphism p: M -> M & C that is coassociative and counital: (idM & △) o = (p & idc) o p and (id)n 8 c) o p = id M . A (right) C-colinear homomorphism f : (M , p) is a k-linear homomorphism f : M -> M' such that p' of = (f & idc) o p. Let coMod~ denote the category of right C-comodules with colinear homomorphisms. Left C-comodules are defined completely analogously. If C is cocommutative, then left and right C-comodules are equivalent and we will simply refer to them as Ccomodules. We shall occasionally use the Sweedler notation for the coaction and write simply ∑(m m(0) & m(1) for p(m) = Σ; m(0); 8 m(1); ∈ M & C for any m ∈ M .

Definition 2.4. A right C-comodule M is finitely cogenerated if there exists a C-colinear monomorphism M -> Con := kon & C.

Definition 2.5. A right C-comodule M is injective if for every C-colinear monomorphism v: X -> Y and any C-colinear homomorphism f : X -> M, there exists a C-colinear homomorphism g: Y -> M such that gol=f.

In particular, if M is a finitely cogenerated and injective right C-comodule, there exists another finitely cogenerated and injective right C-comodule N such that M & N = C = C = C = c = = > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > > Inje (C) denote the category of finitely cogenerated and injective right C-comodules. Then, we have the following result.

Proposition 2.6. The category Inje (C) is an exact category.

Proof. The category coModc is an abelian category as finite limits in coModo are created under the forgetful functor coModc -> Vecty. Consider a short exact sequence of right C-comodules:

0 -- > M -- > N -- > P -- > 0.

If M and P are finitely cogenerated and injective, then so is M & M O P we can conclude.

Definition 2.7 ([KP25]). Given a k-coalgebraic K-theory K (C) to be the algebraic K-theory spectrum K (Inje(C)) of the exact category Inje(C) of finitely cogenerated and injective right C-comodules.

The class of finitely cogenerated and injective comodules forms the class of dualizable objects in comodules with respect to a monoidal structure we now make precise. Recall that given a right C-comodule (M, o) and a left C-comodule (N, X), the relative cotensor product M□cN is defined as the equalizer in Vects;

$$M\square\_C N \longrightarrow M \otimes N \xrightarrow[1 \otimes \lambda]{\rho \otimes 1} M \otimes C \otimes N.$$