which converges in Offilm (U). Later we will show D;(s) acturally lies in the smaller subspace O'yi. "(U). Using Ed.j.(xi - xi,n) = 1, a direct computation shows Ed.j.Di(s) = 0 for all s ∈ Octarm =(0), and

$$s = \sum\_{l=0}^{\infty} a\_{i,l} (x\_i - x\_{i,n})^l$$

with ai = Do(dai) = ). Here we note the coefficients a ; are determined by s. From the construction we know the coefficients a ; are killed by Ed ; for all l. For j ≠ i, we furthure express the coefficients a; ; along Ed.i, namely

$$a\_{i,l} = \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} b\_{i,l,j,\nu} (x\_j - x\_{j,n})^{l^\*}$$

with bi,j,v = D;((sea);(44). As [Ea,j] = 0 for i,j = 0,1,...,d = 1, we see b;,,,v is killed by La, and Ea, . After we expand s along each derivation Ea, for i = 0,1, ... , d = 1, we arrive at an expression

$$s = \sum\_{i\_0=0}^{\infty} \sum\_{i\_1=0}^{\infty} \cdots \sum\_{i\_{d-1}=0}^{\infty} c\_{i\_0 \dots i\_{d-1}} (x\_0 - x\_{0,n})^{i\_0} \cdots (x\_{d-1} - x\_{d-1,n})^{i\_{d-1}}$$

such that Ed,iCa...ia-1 =0,1,...,d = 1. As mº acts trivially on Oge, we know mº acts trivially on xi - xi.n for any i = 0, ... , d - 1. Therefore,

$$0 = \sum\_{i\_0, \dots, i\_{d-1}} (\mathfrak{m}^0 c\_{i\_0 \dots i\_{d-1}}) (x\_0 - x\_{0,n})^{i\_0} \cdot \dots (x\_{d-1} - x\_{d-1,n})^{i\_{d-1}}$$

This implies mºc, ... i = 0. Indeed, the coefficients con... ia-1 are determined by s. Combined this with the fact that Of 22, g is killed by n-10, we see po kills cip...in-1. Hence there is an induced action of m = g'/p on con... ia-1. On U, mº is generated by Ea, for i = 0, 1, ..., d - 1. Indeed, on the open locus Vo = {{a : zi : ···· : za-ı : 1]} C Pe, the matrix Z = ( as oZ = z where o = [0 : 0 : . . . : 0 : 1]. Then Z- Ea, 2 = Ea, for i = 0, 1, ..., d generates nº on V.. From the construction we know co...ia\_ is killed by Eaj; for all i = 0, 1, ..., d = 1, hence it is killed by m . This shows that go acts trvially on Cio...id-1, which implies cio...id-1 € Oximo (U).

Corollary 0.3.2. For any U E Bir, the image of O') &c m-10ge(U) inside Of Jam == (U) is dense. Proof. This follows directly from Theorem 0.3.1. D

To simplify the notation, we denote Orr by the sheaf Of the ... Put Off := Oxim .. Let ΩξΆΣ, " be the sheaf of k-differential forms on Μιτ, » for k = 0, 1, ... a and put Ωξή" := lim, πλέο
π. : Μιτι,ο → Μιτη, · Clearly ΟΥ = ΟΥΡΙ" από Ωξή" = Λόρια Στ

Proposition 0.3.3. There exists a differential operator d : OLT → OLT ®0;m Such that

- (i) d is given by the usual derivation on Off,
- (ii) d is n-10 gt-linear.

Moreover, d is uniquely determined by these two properties up to constants.

Proof. Define d|crip as the differential map on finite levels CPH -> Stimm, and define dln-10%, to be the zero map. By Theorem 0.3.1, for any U E Btr such that za + 0 on U, we may write any section s E Orr(U) of the form for some sufficiently large n:

$$s = \sum\_{i\_0=0}^{\infty} \sum\_{i\_1=0}^{\infty} \cdots \sum\_{i\_{d-1}=0}^{\infty} c\_{i\_0 \dots i\_{d-1}} (x\_0 - x\_{0,n})^{i\_0} \cdots (x\_{d-1} - x\_{d-1,n})^{i\_{d-1}}$$