Note that one can choose any 0 satisfying

$$
\max\{-1, -1 - v\_p(x\_1)\} \le v\_p(\Theta\_0) = 1 - v\_p(\Theta\_1) \le \min\{0, v\_p(x\_0)\}.
$$

We will divide R(r; k') into following four areas, and in each area we will determine the mod-p reduction:

- (i) t = Rint(r; K'): Note that we have either up(Go) & {0, vp(xo)} or vp(Oo) & {-1,-1-vp(x1)}, in this case. Consider two Sp-submodules M' = Sp(E('', E'(') and M" = Sp(E(), E(') of M. Then one can observe that
	- o if vp(00) & {0, vp(x0)}, then M' is a Breuil submodule of M such that M' = M(1, 1; - Bo, a1) and M/M' = M(1, 1; ao, - B1);
	- o if vp(00) & {-1,-1 vp(x1)}, then M" is a Breuil submodule of M such that M" = M(1, 1; ao, - B1) and M/M" = M(1, 1; - Bo, a1).

In particular, if vp(00) & {-1,0, vp(xo), -1 - vp(x1)}, then M = M' @ M" as Breuil modules. Otherwise, It is not difficult to show that the short exact sequence determined by M' → M or M" → M is non-split. So, 788|1q = ως+1 ∂ω2+1,

by Lemma 2.3.6 (i). Furthermore, the monodromy type is given as follow.

- (a) If vp(Go) = 0, then to ≥ 0, and the monodromy type is (1,0).
- (b) If vp(0) = 1, then t1 ≥ 0, and the monodromy type is (0, 1).
- (c) Otherwise, the monodromy type is (0,0).

(ii) t1 = −1, to ≥ 0: We have vp(θο) = 0 = −1−0ρ(x1), and so = , & E F \* and ; = 0 in F. In particular, the monodromy type is (1,0). Put M' = 5p(E), El'). It is easy to see that M' = M(1,2; ao, -px1,B1) and M/M' = M(1,0; - Bo, - 3, and so we conclude that 7881qg = wg @ wg+2, by Lemma 2.3.6 (i), and pis non-split as the monodromy type is nonzero.

(iii) to + t1 = - 1, - 1 < to < 0: We have vp(00) = vp(xo) = - 1 - vp(x1) & {-1,0}, and so - 3, 3, E F x and a = = = 0 in F. In particular, the monodromy type is (0,0). Put

$$A := \begin{bmatrix} -\frac{x\_1}{\Theta\_1}\alpha\_1 & \alpha\_1\\ -\beta\_1 & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} -\frac{x\_0}{\Theta\_0}\alpha\_0 & \alpha\_0\\ -\beta\_0 & 0 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} \frac{x\_0 x\_1}{\Theta\_0 \Theta\_1}\alpha\_0 \alpha\_1 - \beta\_0 \alpha\_1 & -\frac{x\_1}{\Theta\_1}\alpha\_0 \alpha\_1\\ \frac{x\_0}{\Theta\_0}\alpha\_0 \beta\_1 & -\alpha\_0 \beta\_1 \end{bmatrix}.$$

Under the base change

$$\underline{E}^{\prime(1)} = \underline{E}^{(1)} \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -\frac{1}{\beta\_1} \\ \frac{1}{\alpha\_1} & -\frac{x\_1}{\beta\_1 \Theta\_1} \end{bmatrix}, \\ \underline{F}^{\prime(0)} = \underline{F}^{(0)} \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ -\frac{x\_0}{\Theta\_0} & 1 \end{bmatrix}, \\ \underline{F}^{\prime(1)} = \underline{F}^{(1)} \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -\frac{1}{\beta\_1} \\ \frac{1}{\alpha\_1} & 0 \end{bmatrix}, $$

we have

0 Matz(0) , pr(0) (Fil" M(0)) = Mat ==(1) (Fil" M(1) = uI2;

0 Mat g/(1) = (0) (\$(0) = A & & Mat =(0) , p'(1) ((05') = I2.

Note that we have % = % = p0001 and aoa1 = 120001, and so one can describe the mod-p reduction as follow:

o if pxox + 4 in F, then A is diagonalizable. So, extending F large enough, we have p|rQ = w2+1 @ w2+1 by Lemma 2.3.6 (i).