## LUIGI LOMBARDI

is the origin of Y). Then D(Unip(X)) ~ D'(Coh ((Y)) and, by Corollary 2.3 and Proposition 3.6, there is no smooth projective variety M such that De(Unip(X)) is equivalent to De(Coh(M)),

In the positive-dimensional case the characterization of point like objects in D2(Coh(X)) is possible under a positivity assumption on the restriction of the canonical bundle to the support.

Proposition 3.8. Suppose wx|z or wy-|z is ample. Then the point like objects of D2(Coh(X)) are the objects isomorphic to inC(p)|r] where p E Z is a closed point and r E Z.

Proof. Let P be a point like object in Dy(Coh(X)) and denote by Hi the cohomology sheaves of ¿z . Note that the H''s are coherent sheaves on X supported in Z. Since Sz(P) ~ P|dim X], we have the following isomorphisms:

$$\begin{aligned} \iota\_Z^!(\iota\_Z P \otimes \omega\_X) &\simeq P\\ \iota\_Z \iota\_Z^!(\iota\_Z P \otimes \omega\_X) &\simeq \iota\_Z P\\ \iota\_Z \iota\_Z^! \iota\_Z P \otimes \omega\_X &\simeq \iota\_Z P\\ \iota\_Z P \otimes \omega\_X &\simeq \iota\_Z P. \end{aligned}$$

By taking cohomology we have

H3 8 wx ~ HJ for all j. (3)

Now we show that Ho is supported in dimension zero for any j. Suppose ux |7 is ample, the other case being similar. Let k > 0 be an integer such that N := w & |z is very ample and let i : Z → X be the inclusion map (here Z is equipped with the reduced induced subscheme structure). Then the Hilbert polynomial of Px 43 (m) = x(i\*HJ & N (m) has degree equal to

sj := dim Supp(i\* Ho) = dim Supp(H3)

((Ser55, p. 276, Proposition 6)). Moreover, by tensoring (3) with positive powers of wy and by restricting the isomorphisms to Z, we find

$$i^\*\mathcal{H}^j \otimes N \simeq i^\*\mathcal{H}^j \quad \text{for all } j.$$

1. Hence s; = 0 for all j and tzP = C(p)[r] for some closed point p = Z which is impossible if asy 2; 2; 2; 2;
0. Hence s; = 0 for all j and 1z P = C(p)[r] for some closed po It follows that P ~ izC(p)[r].

Example 3.9. We construct further instances of equivalences between derived categories with support extending the equivalences (1). Denote by

$$R\colon \text{Aut}^0(X) \times \text{Pic}^0(X) \to \text{Aut}^0(Y) \times \text{Pic}^0(Y)$$

the Rouquier isomorphism induced by an equivalence F: D'(Coh(X)) -> D'(Coh(Y)) (cf. [Rou11, Théorème 4.18] or [Huy06, Proposition 9.45], and [PS11, p.531, footnote (1))). By following [Lom14, Proposition 3.1], if a E Pic (X) is a topologically trivial line bundle such that Hº(X,w80 & A 0 for some ko E Z, then R(idx, a) = (idy, 8) for some ß ∈ Pic®(Y) and moreover there are isomorphisms Rx : Hº(X,ωχ & α) → Η (Υ,ως Κ ο β) for all k ∈ Ζ. Αs in [Tod06], οπο εαι τυνοί
that if Σ ∈ |ωχή ο ο | and Ε' = R«(Σ) ∈ |ως δ ο β) is the corresponding divisor, to an equivalence of triangulated categories DSwp(E)(Coh(X)) = DSupp(E^(Coh(Y)).