Proposition 5.1. Let (M,w) be a closed symplectic manifold. Assume that Shelukhin's quasimorphism GM on Hame(M,w) is not extendable to Symph(M,w). Then Ro E H2(Symph(M,w)) is non-zero. In particular, the Reznikov class R E H2(Sympe(M,w)) is non-zero.

Before proving the proposition, we discuss the vanishing of the Reznikov class in a more general setting. Let M be a closed symplectic manifold. Let G be a subgroup of Symps(M,w) which contains Ham (M,w) and set G = p(G), where p: Sympf(M,w) -> Symph(M,w) is the universal covering map. Consider the following commutative diagram:

$$\begin{array}{c}\widehat{\text{Ham}^c}(M,\omega) \xrightarrow{\widetilde{i\_0}} \tilde{G} \xrightarrow{\widetilde{i\_1}} \widehat{\text{Symp}^c\_0}(M,\omega) \\\\ \text{Ham}^c(M,\omega) \xrightarrow{i\_0} G \xrightarrow{i\_1} \text{Symp}^c\_0(M,\omega). \end{array}$$

Here io, i1, io and i1 are the inclusions.

Lemma 5.2. The following are equivalent.

- (1) i\*Ro E H2(G) is zero.
- (2) There exists ¢ E Q(G) such that io p\* \$ = GM.

Proof. To prove that (1) implies (2), we assume that if Ro = 0. Recall that b j is a cocycle representing the Reznikov class. Then there exists u E C+(G) such that if by = du. Since by is a bounded cocycle, u is a quasimorphism. Recall from (2.4) that - ov j = p\*i\*bj. Hence we have

$$-\delta \nu\_J = p^\* i\_0^\* \delta u = \delta(p^\* i\_0^\* u) = \delta(i\_0^\* p^\* u).$$

This implies that vj + io p\*u: Ham°(M,w) -> R is a homomorphism. Because Hamº(M,w) is perfect ([Ban78]), we have vj = -io p\*u. Let ø be the homogenization of -u. Then we have GM = io p\* p.

To prove that (2) implies (1), we assume (2) and take ø ∈ Q(G) satisfying io p\* ¢ = GM. Since GM is the homogenization of v7, there exists a bounded function v: Ham((M,w) -> R such that GM = VJ + v. Then we have

$$-\delta \nu\_J = -\delta (\mathfrak{S}\_M - v) = \delta v - \delta \bar{i}\_0^{\ \gamma^\*} p^\* \phi = \delta v - p^\* i\_0^\* \delta \phi.$$

Together with - ov = p\* i ; i b j , we have

1

$$
\rho^\* i\_0^\* (i\_1^\* b\_J + \delta \phi) = \delta v
$$

Note that i\*b y + op is a bounded cocycle on G. Since v is a bounded function, the second bounded cohomology class p\* ¿ " " o ) of Ham ( M, w) is zero. Since G/Ham (M,w) is abelian, the bounded cohomology H;(G/Ham^(M,w)) is zero. In particular, the map i : H;(G) -> H}(Hame(M,w)) is injective by (2.2). Moreover, since p: Hame(M,w) -> Hame(M,w) is surjective, the map