verified that g is an eub for f ac. But then g witnesses that as is good for f. Moreover, by construction, ac E C. Since C was arbitrary, we have shown that there are stationarily many elements of Sy that are good for f.

By Theorem 12, it follows that there is an eub h for f such that cf(h(i)) > \ for all i < w.

Claim 14. cf(h(i)) ≥ >+3 for all but finitely many i < w.

Proof. If not, then there exist k E {1,2} and an unbounded A C w such that, for all i E A, we have cf(h(i)) = >+k. For each i E A, let { 8, : η < λ+k} enumerate, in increasing fashion, a set of ordinals cofinal in h(i). For each η < )+6, define a function hm from w to the ordinals by letting hm(i) = of, if i ∈ A and hm(i) = 0 otherwise. For each η < λ+k, we have hη <\* h, so, since h is an eub for f, there is βη < λ+3 such that hη <\* fg, . Let γ = sup{βρ, : η < λ+'\*}. Since k < 3, we
have γ < λ+3. Therefore, for all η < λ+', we have hq <\* fy. Fix an unbounded B C )+k and an n < w such that, for all n E B, we have hn <n fy. But then, for all i E A \ n, we must have fo(i) ≥ sup{ of : η ∈ B} = h(i), contradicting the fact that h is an upper bound for f. ■

But this claim immediately contradicts the fact that f is a sequence of functions from w to e and e < )+3. This is because, by the claim, we must have h(i) > e for all but finitely many i < w. But then the constant function, taking value €, witnesses that h fails to be an eub.

The results in this section lead to the following corollary.

Corollary 15. Suppose that 3 < n < w.

- 1. If n < wn+1, then there is no strongly increasing sequence (fa : a < Wn+1) of functions from w to η.
- 2. (Nw+1, Nw) + (Nn+1, Nn).
- 3. There are no inner models V ≤ W of ZFC such that (Nw+1)' = (Nn+1)" .

It also follows that the only regular cardinals that can possibly be lengths of strongly increasing sequences from we are Nn for 0 ≤ n < 3. We have seen that there are always such sequences of length No and N1. We will prove, in Section 3, the consistency of the existence of a strongly increasing sequence of length N2. The question about the consistency of the existence of a strongly increasing sequence of length N3 remains open.

## 3 Consistency via a Pmax variation

In this section we use a natural variation of Woodin's partial order IPmax to produce a very strongly increasing sequence in w of length w2.

We refer the reader to [14] for background on Imax; especially Chapter 4 and Section 9.2. The article [8] may also be helpful. Conditions in our partial order IP are triples (M,F,a) such that