Finally, we define the nonlinear mapping FM : R3 -> R3 as

$$F^M(U) := \left(f\_a^M(U) + \varepsilon^{-1}Q^M(U), f\_b^M(U) - \varepsilon^{-1}Q^M(U), f\_v^M\right)$$

Note that the functions for , 410 , de are globally Lipschitz and bounded. Therefore, FM is globally Lipschitz, bounded and

$$F^M(U) := \left(f\_a(U) + \varepsilon^{-1}Q(U), f\_b(U) - \varepsilon^{-1}Q(U), f\_v(U)\right), \quad \text{if} \quad |U| \le M \dots$$

Given p E (1, +00), we consider the operator Ap on Xp := (L"((2))3 defined by

$$\begin{cases} D(A\_p) = D\_p^3 & \text{(see (2.1))}\\ A\_p U = \left( d\_a \Delta u\_a, d\_b \Delta u\_b, d\_v \Delta v \right) & \text{for } U \in D(A\_p) \end{cases} \tag{A.1}$$

and the abstract initial value problem

$$U'(t) = A\_p U(t) + F^M(U(t)), \quad t > 0, \quad U(0) = U^{\text{in}} := (u\_a^{\text{in}}, u\_b^{\text{in}}, v^{\text{in}}) \,. \tag{A.2}$$

We will solve (A.1),(A.2) and then we will get rid of the truncation. The main ingredient is that Ap: D(Ap) CXp -> Xp is a sectorial operator ([21], Theorem 3.1.3). Hence it generates in Xp an analytic semigroup denoted (et4r )+>0 ([21], Chapter 2). Moreover, Ap is closed so that D(Ap), endowed with the graph norm, is a Banach space. D(Ap) being also dense in Xp, the semigroup is strongly continuous, i.e. limt+o et4pU = U, for all U € Xp. Furthermore, there exists Kp > 0 and Wp E R such that (see [21], Proposition 2.1.1)

$$\|e^{tA}\|\_{L(X\_p)} \le K\_p e^{\omega\_p t}, \qquad \forall \ t \ge 0 \,. \tag{A.3}$$

First step: well-posedness of (A.1),(A.2). Let || · ||p denote the usual norm in Xo. We start proving that (A.1),(A.2) has a unique mild solution, i.e. a unique function U E C([0, 00), Xp) such that

$$U(t) = e^{tA}U^{\rm in} + \int\_0^t e^{(t-s)A} F^M(U(s)) \, ds, \qquad \forall \, t \ge 0 \,. \tag{A.4}$$

It is easily seen that FM maps Xp into Xp and

$$\|\|F^M(U)\|\|\_p \le \|\|F^M(0)\|\|\_p + L\_M \|\|U\|\|\_p = L\_M \|\|U\|\|\_p, \quad \forall \ U \in X\_p. \tag{A.5}$$

Therefore, (A.4) makes sense since, by assumption (2.3), Uin E Xp and, for all U € C([0, ∞), Xp) and all t > 0, FM(U('()) ∈ L-((0, t); Xp). Moreover, the Lipschitz property of FM together with (A.3) and Gronwall's Lemma gives us the uniqueness of (A.4). The same ingredients give us the continuous dependence of U with respect to Uim. Therefore, it remains to prove the existence of U and that U belongs to C2([0, ∞); Xp) ೧ C([0, ∞); Dp(A)) for all p ∈ (1, +∞).

Let 0 > 0 be such that wp +0 > 0. The existence is proved using the contraction mapping principle in the space

$$E := \{ U \in C([0,\infty), X\_p) : \|U\|\_E = \sup\_{t \ge 0} e^{-(\omega\_p + \theta)t} \|U(t)\|\_p < \infty \},$$

that is a Banach space when endowed with the norm || || E. Hence, given U E E, we set

$$\Phi(U)(t) = e^{tA}U^{\mathrm{in}} + \int\_0^t e^{(t-s)A} F^M(U(s)) \, ds, \quad \forall t \ge 0 \dots$$