Proof. Let Bt = > = a;C;t; Then B; is big and nef. If B; is not ample, then there exists an irreducible curve Dt on Ye such that Br . Dt = 0. Note that Dt + Cj;t for any 1 ≤ j ≤ k. Thus, Dt · C;j + = 0 for all j. Let Et be the exceptional divisor of fe and D be the image of Dt on X. By adjunction formula,

$$-2 \lesssim (K\_{Y\_t} + D\_t) \cdot D\_t = \left(-\sum\_i C\_{i,t} - E\_t + D\_t\right) \cdot D\_t = D\_t^2 - E\_t \cdot D\_t < -E\_t \cdot D\_t,$$

so 0 ≤ Dt · Ex < 2. Note that Dz · Ei > 0 because f\*(>; Cx) · Dt = – Kx · D > 0. Furthermore, Dz and Et intersect at smooth points of Ye because every singular point of Ye lies on the support of > Cit. Thus, Dt · Et = 1. This implies that

$$-K\_X \cdot D = f\_t^\* \left(\sum\_i C\_i\right) \cdot D\_t = \left( (p+q)E\_t + \sum\_i C\_{i,t} \right) \cdot D\_t = p+q$$

and

f\*D = Dt + pqEt

since E2 = - - . Thus, D2 = D2 - pq is an integer. Since -2 < D2 - Er · De (by adjunction) and D2 < 0, we have D2 = - 1 and D2 = pq - 1. The equality

$$(K\_{Y\_t} + D\_t) \cdot D\_t = -2$$

also implies that De is a smooth rational curve on Ye. In particular, D is smooth or has a unique singular point at x.

Next, we show that D is a (p,q)-unicuspidal curve well-formed with respect to (C,x). Let x1, x2 be a local (analytic) coordinate near x such that the local equation of C is x1x2 = 0. Since D is irreducible, we can write the local equation of D as

$$c\_1 x\_1^{\alpha} + c\_2 x\_2^{\beta} + g(x\_1, x\_2)$$

for some c1, c2 + 0 and a power series g, such that the coefficients of x2 in g vanish whenever i ≤ cr and j < ß. Then the local intersection product at x satisfies

$$(D \cdot C)\_x = \alpha + \beta.$$

Let v = ordE E QM(X,C). Then

$$v(D) = v(f\_t^\* D) = pq.$$

Since v(D) ≤ po; q3 by the definition of a quasi-monomial valuation, we have a ≥ p and ß ≥ q. However,

$$p + q = D \cdot C \gg (D \cdot C)\_x = \alpha + \beta \gg p + q,$$

so a = q and ß = p. This implies that the Newton polygon of D in x1, x2 coordinate is precisely the region above the line connecting (q, 0) and (0, p), so D is a (p, q)-unicuspidal curve which is well-formed with respect to (C,x).

We need the following property about the set of unicuspidal curves on X well-formed with respect to (C,x).

Lemma 3.9. Let T denote the set of t = 9 such that

- · There exists a (p,q)-unicuspidal curve D on X which is well-formed with respect to (C,x),
- · Kx · D = p + q,
- · D2 = pq 1, and
- · Et is a special divisor over X.