## Periodic Inscription of Isosceles Trapezoids

Ali Naseri Sadr

## Abstract

We prove that a pair of continuous disjoint periodic curves in C inscribes an isosceles trapezoid with any similarity type. The case of smooth curves can be identified with a Lagrangian intersection problem for a pair of Lagrangian cylinders in R x S x C, and the continuous case follows from the smooth one by a standard convergence argument.

## Introduction 1

Let 11, 72 : R -> C be two continuous embeddings of the real line into C that satisfy the periodicity condition

$$
\gamma\_i(t+1) = \gamma\_i(t) + \sqrt{-1}
$$

for every t and i = 1, 2. Furthermore, assume the images of 11 and 12 are disjoint. Tao conjectured in [10] that there exist four points in 71 (R) U22(R) which are vertices of a square; this is a variation of the Toeplitz square peg problem for periodic curves, and Hugelmeyer proved it in |5|.

For any given isosceles trapezoid Q, we show there are four points in 11 (R) U 12(R) that are vertices of a quadrilateral similar to Q. The approach of [5] does not directly generalize even to the case of rectangles. By contrast, in this article, we use a different approach to prove not only that every pair of periodic curves inscribes every similarity type of rectangles, but also every similarity type of isosceles trapezoids.

Definition 1.1. Assume Q is an isosceles trapezoid. We say that the pair (11, 12) admits a balanced inscription of Q if there exist p1, p2 E 71(R) and p3, p4 E 72(R) such that the quadrilateral formed by P1, P2, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P3, P is similar to Q, the line segments p1p2 and p3p4 are parallel, and |p1p2| ≤ |p3p4|.

Note that our definition depends on the order of the pair (71, 12) unless Q is a rectangle.

Theorem 1.2. Suppose 11 and 12 are two continuous disjoint periodic embeddings of the into the plane, and suppose Q is an isosceles trapezoid. Then (11, 12) admits a balanced inscription of Q. Furthermore, there is a generic subset of smooth disjoint periodic pairs such that each pair in this set admits at least two balanced inscriptions of Q that are not related under translation by √—1.

Corollary 1.3. Let θ ∈ (0, ½); then every pair of continuous disjoint periodic curves in the plane inscribes a rectangle with angle 0 between its two diagonals.

We conjecture that Theorem 1.2 is optimal, in the following sense.

Conjecture 1.4. Let Q be a quadrilateral that admits an inscription in any pair of disjoint periodic curves in C. Then Q is an isosceles trapezoid.