after a fixed choice of parametrization of boundary of D by R. (In the case the end of D is negative, the above is meant to be analogous.)

A Hamiltonian connection A on [0,1] × M uniquely corresponds to a choice of a smooth function H : [0, 1] × M -> R, normalized to have mean zero at each moment. For the holonomy path of A over [0,1] is a path dx : 0,1] -> Ham(M,w), generated by a Hamiltonian H : [0, 1] x M -> R, and this uniquely determines the connection. Conversely, H uniquely determines a Hamiltonian connection with holonomy path generated by H. We can say that H generates A.

Lemma 2.26. Let p and Lo C dD x M be as in definition above with L=(p) = p, where p is some lift of p to Ham(M,w), that is p(t) = p(t)(p(0)). Let Ao be a Hamiltonian connection on [0,1] x M, generated by a Hamiltonian H : [0,1] x M → R with L= length k, constant for t near 0,1. Then there is a Hamiltonian connection Af on D x M, preserving Lp, compatible with respect to Ag, and satisfying

$$area(\mathcal{A}\_0^p) \le \kappa + \rho.$$

The construction is natural in the sense that (D. Ao) → Af, can be made into a smooth map (of Frechet manifolds).

Proof. Let q : [0, 1] -> Ham(M,w) be the holonomy path of An, q(0) = id, generated by H. Let p. q be the usual path concatenation in diagrammatic order, and H' be its generating Hamiltonian.

Define a coupling form @ on D2 x M:

$$
\Omega' = \omega - d(\eta(rad) \cdot H'd\theta),
$$

for (rad, 0) the modified angular coordinates on D2, 0 € [0, 1], 0 ≤ rad ≤ 1, and η : [0, 1] is a smooth function satisfying

$$0 \le \eta'(rad)$$

and

$$(2.27) \qquad \qquad \eta(rad) = \begin{cases} 1 & \text{if } 1 - \delta \le rad \le 1, \\ rad^2 & \text{if } rad \le 1 - 2\delta, \end{cases}$$

for a small & > 0. By an elementary calculation

$$\text{area}(\mathcal{A}') = L^+(p \cdot q) = L^+(p) + L^+(q),$$

where A' is the connection induced by Ω'. Set

$$\operatorname{arc} = \{(1, \theta) \in D^2 \mid 0 \le \theta \le 1/2\}.$$

Let arce denote the complement of arc in 2D2. Fix a smooth embedding i : D2 >> D such that the following is satisfied (see Figure 1):

· The image of the embedding contains oD - end, where end is the image of the distinguished (say positive) strip end chart

$$[0,1] \times (0,\infty) \to \mathcal{D}.$$

- · i(arc) C ende,
- · i(arce) C end.

Next fix a deformation ret of D onto i(D'), so that in the strip end chart above, for r ≥ 1 ret is the composition i o param o pr, where

$$pr: [0,1] \times (0,\infty) \to [0,1]$$

the projection and where

$$param: [0,1] \to arc^c \subset D^2$$