② Exactly one vertex in T has outgoing neighbor in V(BS n\(BS = O BS 2 = Θ BS 3\_1).

Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2 Ø, w.l.o.g, assume that b has an outgoing neighbor b' in V(BS n\(BS = (BS2 = @BS2 =)), {c+} ≤ V(BS = }), {a7 , c } ≤ V(BS = }), {a+} ≤ V(BS ;\_{). Similarly to the proof in Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find M; ≤ H; such that |M;| = 2k - 1 (i = 1,3) and M2 ≤ H2 such that |M2| = 2k.

Since K(BSn-1) = 4k+1, we can construct one 4k-fan from a to M1 UM2U{c+}, one 4k-fan from b to M2U{a¯, c¯}, one 4k-fan from c to M†UM\*U{a\*}. Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Let b1 = b'. Additionally, there must exist b2 € NBS2 (b) such that b2 does not appear on any of (b, M+UM3U{a¯ , c¯ })-paths, since K(BS2 1 - {b2}) = (2n - 5) - 1 = 4k and |M+ U M3 U {a-, c-}| = 4k.

③ Exactly two vertices in T have outgoing neighbor in V(BS , \(BS , \_ (BS ) , ) ( BS 3\_1).

Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2 3, w.l.o.g, assume that {a¯} ≤ V(BS 3, 1), {a\*} ≤ V(BS .\_ ) and b, c have outgoing neighbors b', c' in V(BS .; (BS .; @ BS 2\_ @ BS 2 -1), respectively. Similarly to the proof of Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find M; ≤ H; such that |M;| = 2k = 1 (i = 1,3) and M2 ≤ H2 such that |M;| = 2k + 1. In addition, there must exist one (b', c')-path in BS ,\(BS ] + BS 2 , }).

Since K(BSn-1) = 4k + 1, we can construct one 4k-fan from a to M1 U M2, one (4k - 1)-fan from b to M+ U M3 U{a=}, one (4k + 1)-fan from c to M\* U M4 U {a+}. Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Moreover, there must exist b1, b2 € Ngs2 (b) such that b1, b2 do not appear on any of (b, M2 U {a+})-paths, since K(BS2-1 - {b1, b2}) = (2n - 5) - 2 = 4k - 1 and |M+ U M3 U {a+}| = 4k - 1.

4 Each vertex in T has at least one outgoing neighbor in V(BSn\(BS)\_, θ BS2\_1 @ BS3\_1)).

Refer to Figure 4 Subcase 3.2 @, w.l.o.g, assume that a, b and c have outgoing neighbors a', b' and c' in V(BSn\(BS)\_1 @ BS ;\_1)), respectively. Since a', b' and c' cannot all be equal, suppose that b' # a' and b' + c'. Similarly to the proof in Subcase 3.1 in Part 1, we can find Mi ≤ Hi such that |M; = 2k (i = 1,3) and M2 ≤ H2 such that |M2| = 2k+1. In addition, there must exist one (a', c' )-path in BSn\(BS = 1 + BS = 1 + BS 3\_1).

Since K(BSn-1) = 4k + 1, we can construct one (4k + 1)-fan from a to M1 U M2, one 4k-fan from b to M2 U M3, one (4k + 1)-fan from c to M5 U M3. Thus, we obtain the desired paths structure. Let b1 = b'. Additionally, there must exist b2 € NBs3\_(b) such that b2 does not occur on any of (b, M+ U M3)-paths, since K(BS 2\_1 - {b2}) = (2n - 5) - 1 = 4k and |M+ U M3| = 4k.

Combining the results of Part 1 and Part 2, the proof is completed. ם