Definition 2.9. Given z = (z1, ... , zn) ∈ C", define zd := (z1, ... , zh-1, zh-1, for any h E {1, ... , n}. A set D C C" is called symmetric if it is invariant with respect to complex conjugation in any variable, i.e. if z E D <> Zb E D, for every h = 1, ... , n.

Let {e1, ... , en} be an orthonormal basis of R" and denote with {eK}KEP(n) a basis of R2" .

Definition 2.10. Let D C C" be an open symmetric set and consider a function F : D C C" -> Rm & R2", F(z) = ≥KEP(n) ex Fx(z) with Fk : D -> Rm. We call F a stem function if FK(zb) = (-1)Kn{h}|FK(z) or equivalently

$$F\_K(\overline{z}^h) = \begin{cases} F\_K(z) & \text{if } h \notin K \\ -F\_K(z) & \text{if } h \in K, \end{cases} \tag{8}$$

for every z E D, every K E P(n) and any h E {1, . . , n}. Again, we use the symbol Stem(D) to
denote the set of stem functions F : D → R ,, Q R ., Q R .,

Equip R2" with the family of commutative complex structures J = { Th : R2" > R2" > h=1 " where each In is defined over any basis element ex of R2" as

$$\mathcal{J}\_h(e\_K) := (-1)^{|K \cap \{h\}|} e\_{K \Delta \{h\}} = \begin{cases} e\_{K \cup \{h\}} & \text{if } h \notin K \\\ -e\_K \backslash\_{\{h\}} & \text{if } h \in K, \end{cases}$$

where KAH = (KUH) \ (K NH) and extend it by linearity to all 限2". J induces a family of commutative complex structure on Rm & R"" (by abuse of notation, we use the same symbol)
7 = { Jh : Rm ® R"" → Rm ® R2" } = , according to the formula

$$\mathcal{J}\_h(x \otimes a) := x \otimes \mathcal{J}\_h(a) \qquad \forall x \in \mathbb{R}\_m, \quad \forall a \in \mathbb{R}^{2^n}.$$

We can associate two Cauchy-Riemann operators to each complex structure Jh.

Definition 2.11. Given a stem function F E Stem(D) C2(D), we define

$$
\partial\_h F := \frac{1}{2} \left( \frac{\partial F}{\partial \alpha\_h} - \mathcal{J}\_h \left( \frac{\partial F}{\partial \beta\_h} \right) \right), \qquad \overline{\partial}\_h F := \frac{1}{2} \left( \frac{\partial F}{\partial \alpha\_h} + \mathcal{J}\_h \left( \frac{\partial F}{\partial \beta\_h} \right) \right).
$$

We call F = = = < = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = holomorphic if it is h-holomorphic for every h = 1, ... , n.

We can give the definition of holomorphic stem function through a system of Cauchy-Riemann equations.

Proposition 2.3 ([18],Lemma 3.12). Let F be a stem function. Then F is h-holomorphic if and only if

$$\frac{\partial F\_K}{\partial \alpha\_h} = \frac{\partial F\_{K \cup \{h\}}}{\partial \beta\_h}, \qquad \frac{\partial F\_K}{\partial \beta\_h} = -\frac{\partial F\_{K \cup \{h\}}}{\partial \alpha\_h}, \qquad \forall K \in \mathcal{P}(n), h \notin K. \tag{9}$$

For any J1, ... Jn E S, define

$$(\phi\_{J\_1} \times \ldots \times \phi\_{J\_n} : \mathbb{C}^n \ni (z\_1, \ldots, z\_n) \mapsto (\phi\_{J\_1}(z\_1), \ldots, \phi\_{J\_n}(z\_n)) \in (\mathbb{R}^{m+1})^n,$$

where øy is defined in (3).