Proof. Let g E A have a non-trivial projection on RH, and let z E AnZ. We have g" zg-6 = a"(z), where a = r(g). Since the actions of Rr and K on the center of Heis are trivial, and the action of Rf is contracting (up to forward or backward iteration), it follows that the sequence (a (z))kez has an accumulation point at 1. As A is discrete, the set {a"(z),k ∈ N} ≤ Λ must be finite, which forces z = 1.

Lemma 3.7. ([17, Lemma 5.3]) Let Q be the semi-direct product Q = R & C where C is a compact connected Lie group. Then Q is isomorphic to the product R x C.

The last lemma we will need in this section is Lemma 3.8 below. It is similar to [16. Proposition 5.4], but we present it here in a form that allows for systematic application. The proof however is the same, so to avoid unnecessary lengthening of the paper, we will not rewrite the proof.

Let Q x C C Aut(Heis) preserving the decomposition heis = a @ 3, and such that C is compact. Define

$$G := (Q \ltimes C) \ltimes N.$$

Let I be a discrete subgroup of G. Under some conditions, the proposition below ensures the existence of a nilpotent syndetic hull of I, i.e. a connected nilpotent subgroup of G containing I as a lattice.

Lemma 3.8. Let I be a discrete subgroup of G, whose projection on Q is dense. Then, up to finite index, I is a lattice in a connected closed nilpotent subgroup of G.

3.2. Proof of Theorem 3.1. We will examine all possible closures of the projection of T to RH × RL ~ R2.

Proposition 3.9. If p(T) = RH × RT, then I does not act properly discontinuously and cocompactly on X.

Proof. By Lemma 3.8, I is a cocompact lattice in a connected nilpotent subgroup N of G. We will show that N N Heis / {1}. Our claim is that dim N ≥ n + 2. Indeed, T acts properly and cocompactly on the K(π, 1) space N/C ~ Rk, where C is the maximal compact subgroup of N. So its cohomological dimension is equal to dim(N/C'). On the other hand, since I also acts properly and cocompactly on X = R"+2, its cohomological dimension must be n + 2. This implies that dim N/C = n + 2. Now, decompose N as N = R x N1, where the R-factor is generated by a one-parameter subgroup of G with a nontrivial projection on RL, and where

$$N\_1 := N \cap (\mathbb{R}\_{\mathbf{H}} \times K) \ltimes \mathsf{H}\mathsf{e}\mathsf{is},$$

satisfies dim N1 ≥ n+1. We have pr(N1) = R, so we further decompose N1 as N1 = Rx No, where the R-factor is a one-parameter subgroup s(t) of (RF × K) x Heis that has a nontrivial projection on RH, and

$$N\_0 := N\_1 \cap (K \bowtie \mathsf{Hieis}),$$

with dim No ≥ n. Since No is nilpotent, its projection to K is an abelian subgroup of O(n), whose maximal possible dimension is [%]. Consequently, No must intersect Heis nontrivially. Moreover, N1 contains the subgroup s(t) x (No Heis), which is therefore nilpotent. However, since the action of s(t) on No 1 Heis is semisimple (and unipotent), it must be trivial. This is impossible since s(t) projects non-trivially on RH, so its real eigenvalues are all different from 1 (the real eigenvalues of its projection to K are all equal to 1). -

Proposition 3.10. If p(I) = R, the action of I is properly discontinuous and cocompact if and only if I is contained in the isometry group.

Proof. We have a short exact sequence 1 -> K x Heis -> G -> Rf x RH -> 1. Let Rn = {e'", t E R} be a one-parameter subgroup of G such that p(RT) = p(T). Then, I is contained in G1 := RT x (K x Heis).

We will show that this group is, in fact, isomorphic to a group of the form (R x K) x Heis. Write T = > + @ + w, with 入 E RH @ RL, Q E t, and w E heis. For any V E €, we have

$$[\mathbf{T}, \Psi] = [\Phi, \Psi] + [\omega, \Psi] \in \mathfrak{k} \ltimes \mathfrak{h}\mathfrak{cis}.\tag{2}$$