Here Bn denotes the ball of radius n centred at the origin. The following property is readily deduced from parabolic estimates:

$$\lim\_{n \to +\infty} u\_n(t, x) = \overline{p}(x) \quad \text{locally uniformly in } (t, x) \in [0, +\infty) \times \mathbb{R}^n. \tag{4.10}$$

We claim that the function un fulfils (4.9) for n sufficiently large, depending on s, hence by the previous step it satisfies (4.8). Assume by contradiction that this is not the case. Then, for any n E N, it holds that

$$t\_n := \inf \{ t \ge 0 \; : \; \exists x \in t \, \widetilde{W}, \; u\_n(t, x) \le \underline{u}(x) \} \\ < +\infty.$$

We know from (4.10) that to -> +00 as n -> +00. In particular, th > 0 for n sufficiently large and it follows from the definition of tm that

$$\forall t \in [0, t\_n), \ \forall x \in t \,\bar{W}, \quad u\_n(t, x) > \underline{u}(x), \tag{4.11}$$

and, moreover, being tmW compact, that there exists xm E tnW such that

$$u\_n(t\_n, x\_n) = \underline{u}(x\_n)$$

Recall that u is a strict subsolution, hence the parabolic strong maximum principle necessarily implies that xn E o(tnW), that is, xn/tn E dW.

Consider now hm E ZN such that &n := xn - hm E [0, 1)10 . We define

$$
\tilde{u}\_n(t, x) := u\_n(t\_n + t, h\_n + x).
$$

Up to extraction of a subsequence, the following limits exist:

$$
\xi\_n \to \xi\_\infty \in [0, 1]^N, \qquad x\_n/t\_n \to \zeta \in \partial \bar{W}.
$$

Also, always up to subsequences, by standard parabolic estimates and spatial periodicity of the equation, the functions an converge to acc, an entire solution of (1.1) which fulfils by construction (and by periodicity of u)

$$
\tilde{u}\_{\infty}(0,\xi\_{\infty}) = \underline{u}(\xi\_{\infty}).\tag{4.12}
$$

Moreover, (4.11) rewrites for the un as

$$
\forall t \in [-t\_n, 0), \ \forall x \in (t\_n + t)\dot{W} - \{x\_n\}, \quad \tilde{u}\_n(t, x + \xi\_n) > \underline{u}(x + \xi\_n). \tag{4.13}
$$

We assert that this entails

$$\forall t \le 0, \ \forall x \cdot \nu \le \left(1 - \frac{\varepsilon}{3}\right) c\_1(\nu) \, t, \quad \tilde{u}\_\infty(t, x + \xi\_\infty) \ge \underline{u}(x + \xi\_\infty), \tag{4.14}$$

where v is the outward unit normal vector to W at the point § and, we recall, c1(v) is the speed of the uppermost front of the terrace T" in the direction v.

The first crucial observation to derive (4.14) is that the t-dependent sets (tm + t)W expand at a given boundary point (tm+t)W(e)e with the (positive) constant normal speed w(e)e. V, where is is the outward normal at that point, hence e · > 0. The second observation is that 0 E d(ty,W - {20}), for any n E N, and that the normal at that point converges to v. The last one is that, because W is compact and smooth, it satisfies uniform interior and exterior sphere conditions of some radius p > 0 on the boundary, whence its dilation (tw + t)W fulfils these conditions with radius (the + t)p, which for any t tends to +00 as n → +00. This means that (tn + t)W "flattens" to a half-space around each of its boundary points as n -> +co. These geometric observations are made rigorous in