Finally, we proceed to the main result of this section. We show that if G is a nontrivial (k,g,s)-multipole with s ≤ (k - 2)g, then it cannot happen that |G| ≤ b1(k,g,s). Thus, we obtain a nontrivial lower bound on the size of G.

Theorem 9. Let G be a nontrivial (k, g, s)-multipole for some k ≥ 3, g ≥ 5 and s ≤ (k - 2)g. Then

$$|G| \ge b\_2(k, g, s) \ge \frac{1}{2}M(k, g).$$

Proof. Note that b2(k, g, s) ≥ = M(k, g). It is easy to check that the statement is true for k = 3 and g ≤ 8 (see Table 1), for other values we can use Lemma 7 and it is sufficient to prove (G) ≥ b2(k,g,(k - 2)g) which is equivalent to |G| > b1(k,g,(k - 2)g). This is clearly true for s = 0. We will proceed by induction as follows. Let G be a nontrivial (k, g, s)-multipole of order n with 0 < s ≤ (k-2)g and assume that Theorem 9 holds for all nontrivial (k', g', s')-multipoles of order n' with s' ≤ (k' - 2)g' where (k', g', s', n') is lexicographically smaller than (k, g, s, n). By Lemma 3 we also assume that G contains no vertex with inner degree 1.

## Case 1: G contains a vertex v with inner degree 2

If k ≥ 4, then let G' = G - v. Clearly, G' is a (k, g, s - (k - 4))-multipole of order n - 1. Graph G' cannot be trivial, otherwise either G would be trivial, or it would have girth less than g (≥ 5). But then C fulfils the theorem condition and as (k, g, s - (k - 4), n - 1) is lexicographically smaller than (k, g, s, n) we have (G' ≥ b2(k, g, s - (k - 4)). By Lemma 7, |G'| ≥ b2(k,g,(k-2)g)) and then |G'| ≥ b2(k,g,(k-2)g)+1. Thus, k = 3.

For k = 3 we already resolved the cases when g ≤ 8. Thus, we may assume g ≥ 9. We remove the vertex v from G and join the two links formerly incident with v to produce one new link. The constructed multipole G' is clearly a nontrivial (3, g - 1, s - 1)-multipole with s - 1 ≤ (k - 2)(g - 1). By the induction hypothesis and Lemma 7 we have |G| ≥ b2(3,g - 1, s - 1) ≥ b2(3,g - 1,g - 1). So it is sufficient to show that

$$b\_2(3, g-1, g-1) > b\_1(3, g, g)$$

We manually checked that this is true for all g < 14, by Proposition 8 it is sufficient to show

$$M(3, g-1) - \frac{(g-1)^2}{2} > \frac{g^2}{2}, \qquad \text{or equivalently,} \qquad M(3, g-1) > g^2 - g + \frac{1}{2}. \tag{8}$$

For g = 2d + 1, Inequality (8) is equivalent to

$$M(k, 2d) = 2 \cdot 2^d - 2 > 4d^2 + 2d + \frac{1}{2},\tag{9}$$

which is true for q > 7.

For g = 2d + 2, Inequality (8) is equivalent to

$$M(3, 2d+1) = 3 \cdot 2^d - 2 > 4d^2 + 6d + \frac{11}{2},\tag{10}$$

which holds for d ≥ 6, thus g ≥ 14.