is a subcomplex since

$$\begin{aligned} D(\underline{z}\_i) &= m\_i - e\overline{z}\_i \in B\_{d+1} \otimes \Lambda(V\_1, V\_1), D), \\ \overline{D}(\underline{z}\_i) &= -\Theta(m\_i) = 0, \end{aligned}$$

by Corollary 2.15, where z; is a basis element of V1 with D(z;) = m; and the second equality holds as O is Ba+1-linear. Denote this subcomplex by C+ and the cokernel by C2 and consider the short exact sequences

$$(2.21)\qquad 0 \to \mathbb{C}\_1 \to (\mathbb{B}\_{d+1} \otimes \mathcal{C}\_{CE}(H^\*(\mathbb{S}^d) \otimes L\_d), \overline{D}) \to \mathbb{C}\_2 \to 0.$$

The subcomplex C1 is a sub-cdga which is a pure Sullivan algebra [FHT01, Ch. 32), i.e. the differential is only non-trivial for odd degree generators and lies in the algebra of even degree generators. Hence, it has an additional homological grading FkC1 := Ba+1 ® AV1 ® AkV1 and

$$H\_0(\mathbb{C}\_1) = \mathbb{Q}[e, p\_1, \dots, p\_{n'} \{\bar{z}\_i\}] / (\{m\_i - e\bar{z}\_i\}).$$

The map Ba+1 → (Ba+1 &CE(H\*(S4) & Lg), D) factors through FoC1 and hence we need to understand the image of the connecting homomorphism of the above short exact sequence.

For d = 3 the vector space V1 is 1-dimensional with generator z1 and D(z1) = p= by Corollary 2.19. Then the sequence (2.21) actually splits as a sequence of cochain complexes so that

$$H(\mathbf{C}\_1) \hookrightarrow H^\*( (B\_{d+1} \otimes \mathcal{C}\_{CE}(H^\*(\mathbf{S}^d) \otimes L\_d), \overline{D}) ).$$

This is because

$$
\tilde{C}\_2 := B\_{d+1} \otimes \Lambda(V\_1 \oplus \overline{V}\_1) \otimes \Lambda^+(V\_2 \oplus \overline{V}\_2),
$$

is a subcomplex isomorphic to C2 as the only way Dlcg can have image in C1 is if there is w E V2 so that D(w) = fz1 + x for f E Ba+1 and x E Ba+1 @ AV1 & A + V2. Suppose w has the minimal degree where this happens, then

$$0 = D^{\angle}(w) = f p\_1^{\angle} + D(\chi)$$

and since D(x) cannot be contained in Ba+1 ® 1 by construction it follows that f = 0. Hence, D1 |v, has image in Ba+1 & V2 and consequently (2.21) splits as as cochain complexes. This proves the second part the theorem as

$$H(C\_1) \cong \mathbb{Q}[\boldsymbol{e}, \boldsymbol{p}\_1, \bar{\boldsymbol{z}}\_1] \mathcal{l}(\boldsymbol{p}\_1^2 - \boldsymbol{e}\bar{\boldsymbol{z}}\_1)^2$$

injects into H\*((Ba+1 8CcE(H\*(S4)&Ld),D)) = H\*(Igs//SO(4);Q). The first part then follows as the map B4 -> H(C1) is injective.

Remark 2.22. The formulation of Corollary 2.19 for all dimensions d is due to the author's attempt to prove a general version of Theorem 2.20, namely that H\*(BSO(d + 1)) -> H\*(Tga//SO(d + 1) is injective for all odd d. However, for d ≥ 5 the free resolution of the kernel of H\*(BSO(d)) -> H\*(F a//SO(d)), i.e. the ideal generated by monomials in the Pontrjagin classes of degree > 2d, has higher syzygies and the proof for d = 3 does not generalize to show that D+(V2) C Ba+1 & V2. In fact, one would need to show a stronger version of Corollary 2.19 to get a splitting of (2.21) for odd d > 3. Nonetheless, it follows from Nariman's results that the monomials in the Euler and Pontrjagin classes do not vanish and I expect that one can improve the statement of Corollary 2.19 or control the image of the connecting homomorphism of (2.21) in order to find a purely algebraic proof of Nariman's result. For this reason, I have kept a general version of Corollary 2.19 in this article in the hope that it can serve as a starting point to prove a more general version of Theorem 2.20 - it is hard to imagine that the statement doesn't generalize to all odd d.