Proof. These operators are limit point at both end points r = 0, and r = ∞. Indeed, any solution of Lf = 0 or Lif = 0 is asymptotic to a linear combination of r2, m => 0+, so no boundary condition is needed at r = 0. The other endpoint r = 00 is standard, see [53, Theorem X.8]. The claim about essential self-adjointness is [53, Theorem X.7]. See [30, Section 4] for the Bessel operator Lo and its domain. The Kato-Rellich theorem applies to L2, Which are relatively bounded perturbations of Lo, see [17, Section 1.4] (in fact, these operators are perturbations of Lo by bounded operators). The Weyl criterium, see [54, Theorem XIII.14], implies that spec. (40) = spec (L1) = [0, co). If x E spec(L1) for some \ < 0, then there exists a ground state of negative energy, i.e., L10 = \g@ for some \0 < 0 and φ ∈ D with φ > 0 (in fact, φ is smooth and φ(r) ~ cr 2 as r -> 0+ for some constant c). Let x(r) = 1 for 0 ≤ r ≤ 1, x ∈ Cºº((0, ∞)) with compact support, and set xb(r) = x(r/b) with b ≥ 1. Then

$$\langle L\_1 \phi, \chi\_b(r) r^{\frac{1}{2}} \rho\_1 \rangle = \lambda\_0 \langle \phi, \chi\_b(r) r^{\frac{1}{2}} \rho\_1 \rangle$$

Integrating by parts on the left-hand side and sending b -> o now leads to a contradiction because of the vanishing L1(r20) = 0. Hence L1 > 0 as stated (note that L1 cannot have a zero energy eigenfunction because the unique 0-energy solution is not in Xo). Pure a.c. spectrum is a consequence of the construction of the Weyl, Titchmarsh m-function for these operators, see |30, 40,

The essential spectrum of L2 follows from the Weyl criterium as before. Since L2 = L1 +2pt > 0, we conclude that the discrete spectrum of L2 – if it exists – is strictly positive.

Remark 2.3. The exact value of co > 0 is not known, but the approximate value co ~ 1.3326 is obtained in (51) via a numerically assisted argument. Moreover, (51) shows that L2 has infinitely many eigenvalues in (co, 2) and that 2 is a resonance.

Next, we determine the spectrum of iC and define the evolution eth using the Hille-Yosida theorem. As we do not have a selfadjoint reference operator available as required for the standard version of Weyl's theorem as in [54, Theorem XIII.14], we need to proceed differently. To this end we first obtain a proper understanding of the resolvent (iLo - z)-1 of the free operator

$$\mathcal{L}\_0 := \begin{bmatrix} 0 & -\partial\_r^2 + \frac{3}{4r^2} \\ -\left(-\partial\_r^2 + \frac{3}{4r^2} + 2\right) & 0 \end{bmatrix}.$$

Let p+(() denote the modified Hankel function

$$
\tilde{p}\_+(\zeta) := \sqrt{\zeta} H\_1^{(1)}(\zeta) = \sqrt{\zeta} \left( J\_1(\zeta) + i Y\_1(\zeta) \right),
$$

and let q+(() denote the modified Bessel function

$$
\tilde{q}\_+(\zeta) := \sqrt{\zeta} J\_1(\zeta).
$$

Here H(', J1, and Y1 denote the order one Hankel function of the first kind, and Bessel function of the second kind respectively. P+ and q+ satisfy the ODE

$$-\frac{\mathrm{d}^2}{\mathrm{d}\zeta^2}\tilde{p}\_+(\zeta) + \frac{3}{4\zeta^2}\tilde{p}\_+(\zeta) = \tilde{p}\_+(\zeta), \qquad -\frac{\mathrm{d}^2}{\mathrm{d}\zeta^2}\tilde{q}\_+(\zeta) + \frac{3}{4\zeta^2}\tilde{q}\_+(\zeta) = \tilde{q}\_+(\zeta).$$

Then by direct inspection, the vectors

$$\begin{aligned} \tilde{\Psi}\_1(r,z) &:= \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik\_1(z)^2}{z} \tilde{p}\_+(k\_1(z)r) \\ \tilde{p}\_+(k\_1(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \quad \tilde{\Psi}\_2(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik\_2(z)^2}{z} \tilde{p}\_+(k\_2(z)r) \\ \tilde{p}\_+(k\_2(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \\\ \tilde{\Psi}\_3(r,z) &:= \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik\_1(z)^2}{z} \tilde{q}\_+(k\_1(z)r) \\ \tilde{q}\_+(k\_1(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \quad \tilde{\Psi}\_4(r,z) := \begin{bmatrix} \frac{ik\_2(z)^2}{z} \tilde{q}\_+(k\_2(z)r) \\ \tilde{q}\_+(k\_2(z)r) \end{bmatrix}, \end{aligned}$$