defined by the formal sum

$$\alpha \star\_{\tau} \beta = \alpha \cup \beta + \sum\_{\substack{d \in \mathbf{Eff}\_{\neq 0}, \\ 0 \le \ell \le N-1}} \langle \alpha, \beta, \phi^{\ell} \rangle\_{0,3,d} \, \phi\_{\ell} \, e^{\langle \tau, d \rangle} \tag{\diamond}$$

where Eff C H2(X,Z) is the set of effective curve classes.

The quantum product reduces to the classical cup product when (7, d) → 一〇 for non-zero effective class d E Eff o. When X is Fano, the degree axiom of Gromov-Witten invariants [12] implies that (0, 0, 7)0.3.a = 0 when deg a+deg 0+ deg y + (c1, d). Therefore, the sum on the right-hand side of (o) is finite.

All the genus-0 Gromov-Witten invariants can be encoded within a connection, known as the Dubrovin conenction.

Definition 2.3 (Quantum Differential Equations 2, Chapter 10)). Let X be a Fano manifold. Let B be the trivial vector bundle with fibre H\*(X) over H2(X)× C\*. Set the coordinate (7, z) = (7) = (5) = (2) x C\*. The Dubrovin connection on B can be defined by:

$$\begin{aligned} \nabla\_{\partial\_j} \varphi &= \frac{1}{z} \phi\_j \star\_\tau \varphi, \\ \nabla\_{z \partial\_z} \varphi &= -\frac{1}{z} c\_1(X) \star\_\tau \varphi + \mu(\varphi) \end{aligned}$$

where µ : H\*(X) → H\*(X); the Hodge grading operator, is a linear map defined by

$$
\mu(\phi\_\ell) = \frac{1}{2} (\deg \phi\_\ell - \dim X) \phi\_\ell,
$$

and o E H\*(X) is reqarded as a constant section of the trivial bundle.

The Dubrovin connection is a flat connection. Its fundamental solution along the 7-direction, i.e., sections satisfying ▽ ▽ ¿ ( L ( 7, z)α) = 0 for all j = 1, . . , b2 ( X ), can be given by

$$L(\tau, z)\alpha := e^{-\tau/z}\alpha - \sum\_{\substack{d \in \mathbf{Eff}\_{\neq 0} \\ 0 \le \ell \le \dim H^\*(X) - 1}} \left\langle \phi^\ell, \frac{e^{-\tau/z}\alpha}{z + \psi} \right\rangle\_{0, 2, d} e^{\langle \tau, d \rangle} \phi\_\ell,$$

where the second argument of the coefficients is expanded as

$$\frac{1}{z+\psi} = \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} (-1)^k \, z^{-(k+1)} \, \psi^k.$$

By the linearilty of the Gromov-Witten invariants, the coefficients are a sum of the Gromov-Witten invariants with gravitational descendants.