Proposition 3.6 ( ( 15, Corollary 1.4)). Consider the assumption in Theorem 3.5. Then, Selfor ( E/ Koo) has no proper A-submodules with finite index.

By the above proposition and a property of the Fitting ideal (cf. [10, Lemma A.7]), we have

$$\text{Fitt}\_{\Lambda}\left(\text{Sel}\_{p^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K\_{\infty})^{\vee}\right) = \text{char}\_{\Lambda}\left(\text{Sel}\_{p^{\infty}}^{\pm}(E/K\_{\infty})^{\vee}\right). \tag{3.1}$$

Last, we prove the control theorem for Selfs (E/Koo) in our situation by the similar arguments to [1]. We prepare the following lemma for the proof. Let w be a prime of Ko above p.

Lemma 3.7. The natural map ft : Hz(Kn.p) Elp®)) -> Hz(Koo,w,Elp®))[wi] is injective, and the cokernel of f= is a finite group for any positive integer n. Here, we define H =(Koo,w, E[px]) := lim H = (Kn,p, E[px]).

Proof. Note that we have E[px] (xxx = 0 by [15, Proposition 3.2]. By Inflation-Restriction exact sequence, we see that the canonical map

$$f\_n: H^1(K\_{n,p}, E[p^\infty]) \longrightarrow H^1(K\_{\infty, p}, E[p^\infty]) \\
\stackrel{\text{Gal}(K\_{\infty, p}/F\_{n, p})}{=} H^1(K\_{\infty, p}, E[p^\infty])[\omega\_n]$$

is injective. Since the map fo is the restriction of fn to H+(Kn.p) Elpoo), ff is also injective.

For the claim for Coker f; , it suffices to show that both the Zp-coranks of H=(Kn,p, E(pol) and Hi (Koo,w,E[p()][u] are same. Since we have H] (Ko,w,E[p()) ~ A2 as A-module by the Rubin conjecture, we see that

$$\begin{split} H^1\_{\pm}(K\_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}])[\omega\_n^{\pm}]^\vee &\simeq (H^1\_{\pm}(K\_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}]))^\vee / \omega\_n^{\pm} (H^1\_{\pm}(K\_{\infty,w}, E[p^{\infty}]))^\vee \\ &\simeq \Lambda^2 / \omega\_n^{\pm} \Lambda^2. \end{split}$$

On the other hand, we have H2 (Kx,,, E[p°]) = = (Kn,))\* ® (Q, / Z, ) by the definition. Thus,
we see that Hz (Kn,,, E[p°])' ~

Proposition 3.8. Consider the assumption in Theorem 3.5. Then, the canonical homomorphism Selto(E/K∞)[ω荒] --> Sel誌(E/Kn)[w]

is injective, and the order of the cokernel is finite for any n.

Proof. We take the finite subset Σ = {p} U{bad primes of E}. Then, we have the following commutative diagram:

Since we have E[pro]OKo = 0, the map H+(Kg/Kn,E[po]) -> H+(Kz/Koo,E]po)](w] induced by the restriction map is isomorphism by the Inflation-Restriction exact sequence. Therefore, ha is also isomorphism. By the snake lemma, st is injective, and it suffices to calculate the kernel of g .

We first consider the case v E 2 { { } }. Then, Koo, oo / Km,vn is the trivial extension or the unramified Zp-extension. If the extension Koo, Kn,v, is trivial, then it is clear that Ker given = 0. Assume that Ko,vo/Kn,w, is the unramified Zp-extension. Write Bng := E[p®]OKxo,vo . We consider the exact sequence

$$0 \longrightarrow H^1(K\_{\infty, v\_{\infty}}/K\_{n, v\_n}, B\_{v\_{\infty}}) \longrightarrow H^1(K\_{n, v\_n}, E[p^{\infty}]) \longrightarrow H^1(K\_{\infty, v\_{\infty}}, E[p^{\infty}])$$