with n trials and success probability p. Recall that P = Pn Q = Qn are two probability measures on a pair of random graphs on [n] = {1,...,n}. Denote Sn the set of permutations in [n] and u = un the uniform distribution on G. In addition, denote by v = vo the uniform distribution on {-1,+1}". We will use the following notation conventions for graphs.

- · Labeled graphs. Denote by Kn the complete graph with vertex set [n] and edge set Un. For any graph H, let V(H) denote the vertex set of H and let E(H) denote the edge set of H. We say H is a subgraph of G, denoted by H C G, if V(H) C V(G) and E(H) C E(G). We say o : V(H) → V(S) is an injection, if for all (i, j) ∈ E(H) we have (g(i), g(j)) ∈ E(S). For H,S C Kn, denote by H N S the graph with vertex set given by V (H) n V (S) and edge set given by E(H) n E(S), and denote by SUH the graph with vertex set given by V(H)UV(S) and edge set given by E(H)UE(S). For any graph H, denote the excess of H by r(H) = |E(H)| - |V(H)|. Given u E V(H), define Neir(u) to be the set of neighbors of u in H. For two vertices u, v E V(H), we define Distr(u, v) to be their graph distance. Denote the diameter of a connected graph H by Diam(H) = max, wev(H) Distr(u, v).
- · Graph isomorphisms and unlabeled graphs. Two graphs H and H' are isomorphic, denoted by H ≥ H', if there exists a bijection T : V(H) => V(H') such that (n(u), n(v)) E E(H') if and only if (u, v) E E(H). Denote by H the isomorphism class of graphs; it is customary to refer to these isomorphic classes as unlabeled graphs. Let Aut(H) be the number of automorphisms of H (graph isomorphisms to itself). For any graph H, define Fix(H) = {u ∈ V (H) : q(u) = u, Yo E Aut(H)}.
- · Induced subgraphs. For a graph H = (V,E) and a subset A C V, define HA = (A,EA) to be the induced subgraph of H in A, where EA = {{u,v} E E : u,v E A}. Also, define H(A = (V, E\A) to be the subgraph of H obtained by deleting all edges with both endpoints in A. Note that EAUEA = E.
- · Isolated vertices. For a ∈ V(H), we say u is an isolated vertex of H if there is no edge in E(H) incident to u. Denote Z(H) as the set of isolated vertices of H.
- · Paths, self-avoiding paths and non-backtracking paths. We say a subgraph H C Kn, is a path with endpoints u,v (possibly with u = v), if there exist w1,...,wm € [n] + u,v such that V(H) = {u,v,w1;...,wm} and E(H) = {(u,w1),(w1,w2)... ,(wm, v)} (we allow the occurrence of multiple vertices or edges). We say H is a self-avoiding path if wo, w1, . . , wm, wm-1 are distinct (where we denote wo = u and wm+1 = v), and we say H is a non-backtracking path if wit + wi-1 for 1 ≤ i ≤ m. Denote EndP(P) as the set of endpoints of a path P.
- · Cycles and independent cycles. We say a subgraph H is an m-cycle if V(H) = {v1, ... , ym ( and E(H) = {(01, v2), ... , (vm, (vm, 01)}. For a subgraph K C H, we say K is an independent m-cycle of H, if K is an m-cycle and no edge in E(H) \ E(K) is incident to V(K). Denote Cm(H) as the set of independent m-cycles of H. For H C S, we define Cm(S,H) to be the set of independent m-cycles in S whose vertex set is disjoint from V(H).
- · Leaves. A vertex u E V(H) is called a leaf of H, if the degree of u in H is 1; denote L(H) as the set of leaves of H.
- · Trees and rooted trees. We say a graph T = (V(T), E(T)) is a tree, if T is connected and has no cycles. We say a pair (T, 96(T)) is a rooted tree with root 96(T), if T is a tree and H(T) E V(T). For a rooted tree T and u E V(T), we define Depp(u) = Distr(98(T), u) to be