Theorem 1.9. Given integers △ ≥ 1 and n ≥ 2△. There exist A,B ≤ Z, |A| = |B| = n and a relation R C A x B with bounded degree & from B such that

$$|A +\_{\mathcal{R}} B| = |A| + |B| - 1 - \left\lfloor \frac{5\Delta}{2} \right\rfloor . .$$

We believe the above theorem is tight, which suggests Theorem 1.5(i) could potentially be strengthened to |A+x B| > |A| +|B| - 1 - [ 2 ] . It is worth noting that any improvement of the —3△ term in Theorem 1.5(i) would directly lead to a strengthening of Theorem 1.6(i), with the same parameters ce, no unchanged. The bottleneck of the current method for potential improvement of Theorem 1.6(i) lies in the case A, B C Z after applying the rectifiability argument. The remaining part of the proof would remain valid without any modification.

Conjecture 1.10. Suppose △ ≥ 1 is an integer, A, B C\_Z satisfies |B| ≤ |A|, and R C\_A x B is a binary relation between A and B. If the maximum degree of R on B is at most △, we have

$$|A + \mathcal{R} \; B| \geqslant |A| + |B| - 1 - \left\lfloor \frac{5\Delta}{2} \right\rfloor.$$

The second part of this paper presents two examples. The first explans why the additional requirement |B| = O2(v) is necessary for Corollary 1.8(i) to hold. The second demonstrates why a stronger assumption | A + | B | > (1 + ) ) is required for Conjecture 1.2 to hold in order to prove | A+7 B | ≥ p-2, even in the case where B < Ep.

Theorem 1.11(i) restates an example originally given by Lev [Lev00b]. We reformulated it here for consistency with the notation and style used throughout this paper. Theorem 1.1(ii) was inspired from the same paper.

Theorem 1.11. Suppose p is a prime number.

(i) For any integor k > 1 and 1 < € < [ == ]; there exist subsets A, B \_ Ep and a function
R: B → A such that |A| = p = (k = 1)2 = k + 1, |D| = kl + 2 and |A +x B| = p = k.

(ii) For any prime number p, there exists a subset A C Ep and a symmetric relation R C A x A with maximum degree 1, such that | A| = 6 [ = ] = 3 and | A + R A| = p = 3.

(iii) For any = > 0, there exists & > 0 such that for any sufficiently large prime number p, there exist A, B E E , with | A | + | B > (1 + δ)p - O(1), |B| ≤ ερ, and a relation R C A × B with maximum degree 1, such that |A+R B| = p - 3.

Plugging l = | 2 = | 2 = 1 into Theorem 1.11(i), we have the following.

Corollary 1.12. Suppose p is a prime number.

(i) For any integer k > 1, there exist subsets A,B ≤ Tp and a function R: B → A such that
|A| = p − (k − 1) [f = == ] − k + 1, |B| = k] = = = = = = = =

(ii) For any = > 0, there exist A, B C Ep and a function R: B → A such that |A| = (1-2e)p+O(1), |B| = ep+0(1) and |A+R B| = |A|+|B|-4, where the value of the O(1) term within the expressions of | A| and | B| are smaller than 3.

Thus, for potential extensions of Corollary 1.8(i), in the regime where |al +|B| > p, it is necessary
to assume at least |A|+|B| > p=k+| [完]== ] +4 > = == p= == 2 in order to In the regime |A| + |B| ≤ (1 - €)p, an additional assumption |B| ≤ ≤p is required.

Combining Corollary 1.8(i) and the examples above, we propose the following conjecture. The main obstacle in proving this conjecture lies in the fact that, in Theorem 1.6, the parameter c; is not linear in e. So it remains unclear how to prove | A +R B = 3 under assumptions such as |A + c B < p for any constant c.

Conjecture 1.13. Suppose p is a prime number, A, B C E , with | B| ≤ | 4|. Let R: B -> A be an arbitrary function from B to A. If |A| +2|B| ≤ p, then |A+R B| ≥ |A| +|B| - 3.