turns into

$$
\mu\_{u^\perp} + \mu\_{v^\perp} = 0 \,, \tag{4.27}
$$

where the index 1 refers to the projection to the subspace orthogonal to w, w\* i.e. u. = = ≥2 (u2 ou, - u; o u; ). Clearly, the latter equation means that Span ({u;}\_) = Span ({v; } = } = } =

It is also clear from above that the map (w,u+) → (u, v, w) is the one described in the proposition.

## 5. General embeddings u = 0

To start with, we prove the following lemma (we assume µ-1(0) connected):

Lemma 1. An orbit L = u-1(0) is Lagrangian only if L ~ µ-1(0).

Proof. Start with the definition of the moment map: du[v] = w(, where v is a vector field generating the Lie group action. Take a point p E L: contracting the above equality with an arbitrary vector field tangent to u-1(0) we find that

$$0 = \omega(w, v), \qquad \text{where} \quad v \in \mathcal{T}\_p L, \qquad w \in \mathcal{T}\_p \mu^{-1}(0) \tag{5.1}$$

Now, suppose u1 ... ve is a basis of vectors tangent to the orbit L = u-- (0) but not a basis in Tou-1(0). In this case there is a non-zero vector w E Top™-1(0)/TyL. By (5.1) the restriction of w to Span(TnL, w) is zero. As a result, L is not Lagrangian unless Tou-1(0) ~ ToL at every point implying that u-1(0) ~ L. 

Thus, if one wishes to find Lagrangian submanifolds within u-1(0), one should search for cases where u--(0) is a single orbit. Let us recall how this works in the case of SU(n) flag manifolds.

5.1. SU(n) flag manifolds. We will now use the method employed in the proof of Proposition 4 to show that the flag manifold featuring in Proposition 2 is u={(0). Indeed, for any matrix µ; := g;A;g; in the orbit of A; given by (3.4) one has the