quantized spectrum:

$$
\hat{S}\_0(\mathbf{k}) = \tau^z \qquad \hat{Q}\_0 = \sum\_{\mathbf{k}} d\_\mathbf{k}^\dagger \hat{S}\_0(\mathbf{k}) d\_\mathbf{k}
$$

$$
\hat{S}\_1(\mathbf{k}) = \cos k\_z \tau^z + \sin k\_z \tau^x \qquad \hat{Q}\_1 = \sum\_\mathbf{k} d\_\mathbf{k}^\dagger \hat{S}\_1(\mathbf{k}) d\_\mathbf{k}.\tag{10}
$$

The first is the usual U(1) symmetry, while the second is composed of Kitaev Majorana chains [16] along z-axis wires. These generators do not commute, instead they generate an infinite-dimensional Lie algebra known as the Onsager algebra, introduced in [17]. This algebra has recently appeared in the study of the 1+1D chiral anomaly on the lattice [18, 19], and offers another route to defining exact symmetries on the lattice giving anomalous symmetries in the IR

We can actually write a Hamiltonian that has this symmetry and two Weyl nodes, which in the BdG formalism above (using the d basis) is

$$h\_{\text{double Weyl}}^{\text{BdG}}(\mathbf{k}) = \mathbf{1}\_{\tau} \otimes \frac{1}{2} \left[ \sin k\_x \sigma^x + \sin k\_y \sigma^z \right. \tag{11}$$

$$+ \left[ \cos k\_z - \cos K + m(\mathbf{k}) \right] \sigma^y \Bigg]\_{\text{(11)}},$$

where the identity in the 7 basis ensures it has both U(1) symmetries, K is a parameter, and m(k) is the same as in (3). This model is a magnetic Weyl semimetal model that has the two Weyl nodes at k = ±K where K = (0,0, K).

Let's linearize around the Weyl nodes. We get

$$h\_l^{\text{BdG}} = \mathbb{1}\_{\tau} \otimes \frac{1}{2} (k\_x \sigma^x + k\_y \sigma^z - \sin K \ k\_z \sigma^y). \tag{12}$$

This shows that for K ≠ 0, n, the two Weyl nodes have an opposite handedness. To figure out the effect of S1(k) at low energy, we can also linearize it, and obtain

$$\hat{S}\_{1,K}(\mathbf{k}) = \cos K \ \tau^z + \sin K \ \tau^x. \tag{13}$$

The important feature for K + 0, n is that the second term is non-zero.

Thus, together with So = 72, these generate an su(2) algebra acting on the low energy theory. Note that 70 acts by exchanging particles at K with holes at -K. Thus, it is convenient to apply a charge conjugation the right-handed Weyl fermion, to give a low energy theory in terms of two left-handed Weyl fermions, now with opposite charge w.r.t. 72 rotations. 700 rotations meanwhile act by a flavor rotation exchanging the two Weyl fermions. Thus, our symmetry generators Qo, Q1 correspond to two su(2) generators in the flavor symmetry of the low energy, at an angle of K. For K + 0, T, they thus generate the whole chiral symmetry.

We can demonstrate that this symmetry protects the gapless Weyl points. To do so, we must break translation symmetry, since otherwise z-axis translations also act as a discrete axial symmetry and help to stabilize the Weyl nodes [12, 13]. To analyze translationsymmetry breaking, we consider an extended basis ek = (ck-K,ck+K,ck+K,ck-K,ck-K)" (we suppress the spin component). Hamiltonians in this basis may couple states at k with k + 2K but are automatically Qo preserving. In this basis the symmetry action of 01 becomes

$$\begin{aligned} U(1)\_{\hat{Q}\_1} : \delta e\_\mathbf{k} &= i(\cos k\_z \cos K \ \tau^z + \sin k\_z \sin K \ \eta^z \tau^z \\ &+ \sin k\_z \cos K \ \tau^x - \cos k\_z \sin K \ \eta^z \tau^x) e\_\mathbf{k}, \end{aligned} \tag{14}$$

which prohibits all mass terms except mi(k)no o . However, these terms always commute with at least one term in the original Hamiltonian, so the result is a shift in the gapless modes rather than a gap. At a large enough pertubation, we can move the modes until K = 0 or n, where the symmetry generators are aligned and no longer generate the whole SU (2) symmetry. At these special points, we will be able to open a symmetric gap.

## IV. TIME REVERSAL SYMMETRIC SINGLE WEYL FERMION IN 3+1D

So far, we have considered time-reversal breaking models. We can also construct time-reversal invariant models, at the cost of making the symmetry generator slightly more not-on-site. As long as S(k) is a smooth function of the momentum, then the charge density in real space will be a sum of terms with faster-than-polynomial decay. Such "almost-local" operators share many properties with local operators, while being closed under Hamiltonian evolution generated by such terms [20, 21]. This will allow us to employ bump functions and partitions of unity in momentum space.

To construct a time-reversal invariant model with a single protected Weyl fermion, we begin with a model on a cubic lattice with eight Weyl nodes. We use the BdG formalism with the basis di = (ckr, ckl, c-kt, c-kt, c-kt) used above, giving the Hamiltonian

$$h\_8^{\rm BdG}(\mathbf{k}) = \frac{1}{2} \left[ \sin k\_x \sigma^x + \sin k\_y \sigma^z + \sin k\_z \tau^z \sigma^y \right]. \tag{15}$$

This model has Weyl nodes at all eight time-reversalinvariant-momentum (TRIM) points of the Brillouin zone, as well as a time-reversal symmetry 0 = io K, where K is complex conjugation, satisfying 02 = - - 1.

We will now add a U(1) symmetry-breaking term that will gap out all Weyl nodes except the one at k = 0. In order to facilitate our discussion, let us first define a bump function B(k) given by

$$B(\mathbf{k}, w) = \begin{cases} e^{-\frac{w^2}{|\mathbf{k}|^2 - w^2}} & \text{for } |\mathbf{k}| < w \\ 0 & \text{for } |\mathbf{k}| \ge w \end{cases} \tag{16}$$