Remark 2.10. In Proposition 2.8 and all of our computation examples, there is a symmetry between the x; and y; coordinates of XA, (N21) for all i. Antoine de Saint-Germain has kindly pointed out to the second author that the xi -> y; direction of this symmetry has the following names in different contexts:

- · the Auslander-Reiten translate in finite-dimensional representation theory;
- · the Fomin-Zelevinsky twist in Lie theory (cf. |dSG23, §5.6|;
- · the Donaldson-Thomas transformation in Calabi-Yau theory;
- · the maximal green sequence in combinatorics.

2.4. Effective bounds. As before, let ALR = (a;;) be a Cartan matrix for Dynkin type Δn. Denote its inverse by Ax = (α.]). Define the following associated values:

$$\begin{aligned} \mathbf{b}\_{\mathbf{i},\Delta\_{\mathbf{n}}} &:= \prod\_{\mathbf{j}=\mathbf{l}}^{\mathbf{n}} \mathbf{2}^{\mathbf{a}\_{\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}}^{-1}} \\ \mathbf{c}\_{\mathbf{i},\Delta\_{\mathbf{n}}} &:= \prod\_{\mathbf{j}=\mathbf{l}}^{\mathbf{n}} \left( \mathbf{l} + 2^{\sum\_{\mathbf{k}\neq\mathbf{i}} \mathbf{a}\_{\mathbf{j},\mathbf{k}}} \right) \mathbf{a}\_{\mathbf{i},\mathbf{j}}^{-1} \end{aligned}$$

Muller |Mul23, Proposition 2.3 and Example 3.1| gives bounds on frieze entries in terms of these values.

LEMMA 2.11. |Mul23, Proposition 2.3 and Example 3.1| Let F be a positive integral An-frieze. Then there is the following upper bound on the product of entries in its i-th row: II, = Fi, ≤ b, 2" . Furthermore, if all entries in F are at least 2, then II;=n Fi,j ≤ ci,An

An immediate consequence of Lemma 2.11 and Proposition 2.3 is that if the frieze F corresponds to the point (x1,...,xn;y1,...,yn) € X4,(N4"), then x; ≤ b;2", Furthermore, if all entries in F are at least 2, then xi ≤ c . 2 .

The Diophantine model of friezes allows us to find a minimal element in each Z/PAn Z-orbit on which we can reduce existing bounds by a power of --.

PROPOSITION 2.13. Let F be a positive integral An-frieze and fix an i E {1, ... , n}. There is a An-frieze F' corresponding to (x1, ... , Yn) E Xg. (Nd") such that F is a horizontal translation of F' and xi ≤ bi.Δ. Furthermore, if all entries in F are at least 2, then Xi ≤ Ci,An .

Proof. Each △n-frieze F is a horizontal translation of a frieze F' in its Z/PA, Z-orbit such that F;; ≤ F;; for all 1 ≤ j ≤ P&, . By Lemma 2.11, there is a bound on TIj=1 = b;, But x; = F;, is the smallest factor in the product of Pa,-many terms, hence xi ≤ bi.△m. If the entries of F are all at least 2, then the entries of the translation F' are also all at least 2. Hence the same argument gives the bound in terms of Ci,An instead of bi,An i