Some key theoretical results behind the Gröbner walk are stated below. Detailed proofs and additional context may be found in Chapters 1 and 2 of [10].

Theorem 2. For an ideal I < R, the following sets are in one-to-one correspondence:

$$\left\{ \begin{array}{c} \text{in}\_{<}(I),\\<\text{is a term order} \end{array} \right\} \leftrightarrow \left\{ \begin{array}{c} \text{marked } Gröber \text{ bases} \\\text{of } I \end{array} \right\} \leftrightarrow \left\{ \begin{array}{c} \text{full-dimensional} \\\text{ones of } \mathbb{G}(I) \end{array} \right\}$$

In our setting, a marked Gröbner basis is a reduced Gröbner basis with the leading terms identified (formally, each g is encoded as a pair (g, x"), where x = in (g)). The first correspondence in Theorem 2 immediate, whilst the second correspondence is a consequence of [13, Theorem 1.11]: marked Gröbner bases encode the defining integer vectors of an H-description of the corresponding cone.

Lower-dimensional cones in G(I) correspond to generalized initial ideals inw(I), where w is any weight vector in the relative interior of said cone. Generically, such ideals are "almost monomial", and may be retrieved with the help of the following lemma:

Lemma 3. Let G < be a marked Gröbner basis of I with regards to < and w E RS be a weight vector on the boundary of the corresponding cone in G(I). The set

$$\text{in}\_{\omega}(G\_{<}) = \{ \text{in}\_{\omega}(g), g \in G\_{<} \}$$

is a marked Gröbner basis of inw(I) with respect to <.

At every step of the Gröbner walk, a basis of this form converted with Buchberger's algorithm and then lifted to the basis of I corresponding to the adjacent full-dimensional cone, which corresponds to (<t)w, i.e. the refinement of the target ordering < + by w.

Lemma 4. Let M = {m1, ... , } be the marked Gröbner basis of inw(I) with respect to the refinement ordering (<t)w. Then

$$G := \{ m\_1 - \overline{m\_1}^{G\_<}, \dots, m\_r - \overline{m\_r}^{G\_<} \}$$

is a Gröbner basis of I with respect to (<t)w where JC denotes the normal form of f with respect to the basis G < .

This process of subsequent passing to the generalized initial ideal and lifting to the adjacent basis is repeated until the target basis is computed.

## 3. FUNCTIONALITY

Our implementation of the Gröbner walk ships with OSCAR since version 1. 2. 0, thus it suffices to load OSCAR. There is a straightforward interface through the function groebner\_walk.

Example 5. Continuing from example Example 1, we can calculate a Gröbner basis of the ideal

$$I = \langle y^4 + x^3 - x^2 + x, x^4 \rangle \lhd \mathbb{Q}[x, y]$$

with respect to <lex by starting from a Gröbner basis for the graded reverse lexicographic ordering << degrevlex. Since < degrevlex is the default internal ordering of any polynomial ring in OSCAR, it suffices to call the Gröbner walk in the following way.