and then observing that the canonical function of Y writes as k(x) = >e == == == == == == == == == == == == = 7-4 = 74 = 28g. The Dirac integration to which (5.25) reduces, produces

$$k\_{\rho}(x) = \lambda e^{(A^2 - B^2)x/2} = \lambda e^{-\theta\_+ \theta\_- x/2}. \tag{5.27}$$

Therefore, the bilateral gamma process can be represented in law as Yt = Wr + (0\_ - 0 )t/2 where L(T) ~ I'(), 9 +0 /2). This has been known and used at least since Madan et al. (1998).

Example 10. Subordinated representation of CTS processes. Madan and Yor (2008) through a series of propositions covering a substantial part of the article, explain how to represent a CTSa(R) process as a subordinated Brownian motion with drift. Based on the discussion so far, the main Proposition 2 therein trivialize. First of all notice that the assumptions in Theorem 6 are met also in the case of CTS (R) processes with symmetric spherical part. Namely, assuming À+ = À\_ and letting again A = (θ\_ = 0+)/2, Β = (θ\_ + θ\_)/2, leads to k(x) = x=4 c B .; }, so that using the Thorin measure found in Subsection 4.3 we deduce the required density relationship r=4(y) = 7\_(y) = λ(y = Β)α-1(Γ(α))-11;y≥Β). It then follows from Corollary 6, and with the substitution w = (s - B) x, that

$$k\_{\rho}(x) = \lambda \frac{e^{xA^2/2}}{\Gamma(\alpha)} \int\_{B}^{\infty} e^{-\frac{s^2 x}{2}} (s - B)^{\alpha - 1} ds = \lambda \frac{e^{(A^2 - B^2)x/2}}{\Gamma(\alpha) x^{\alpha/2}} \int\_{0}^{\infty} e^{-\frac{w^2}{2} - wB\sqrt{x}} w^{\alpha - 1} dw$$

$$= \lambda \frac{e^{-\theta\_+ \theta\_- x/2}}{x^{\alpha/2}} H\_{-\alpha} \left( \frac{\theta\_+ + \theta\_-}{2} \sqrt{x} \right) \tag{5.28}$$

where Ha, a < 0, is the Hermite function, given by

$$H\_a(z) = \frac{1}{\Gamma(-a)} \int\_0^\infty e^{-x^2/2 - xz} x^{-a-1} dx, \qquad z > 0. \tag{5.29}$$

The corresponding Lévy density coincides with that determined in Madan and Yor (2008), Proposition 2.

Example 11. Subordinated representation of generalized-z processes. Let u E GZDg(R) with Levy measure of the form (4.20), i.e. c(±1) = c+ > 0, σ(±) = σ > 0 and \(du) = λ(ô(du) + 8\_1(du)), x > 0. We can rewrite again k(x) = eAx/0-B)(1 - e-l=10), A = (c\_ - c+)/2, B = (c\_ + c+)/2 so we are under the assumption of Theorem 6. Based on (4.22) and (5.25), integrating term by term the series results in

$$k\_{\rho}(x) = \lambda e^{\frac{A^2 x}{2\sigma^2}} \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{(k+B)^2}{2\sigma^2}\right) = \lambda \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{k^2 + 2Bk + B^2 - A^2}{2\sigma^2}\right)$$

$$= \lambda \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} \exp\left(-x\frac{(k+c\_+)(k+c\_-)}{2\sigma^2}\right). \tag{5.30}$$

The subordinator is then of the form of an infinite GGC convolution of gamma processes G\* = (G%)≥0, k ≥ 0, C(G\$) ~ I (x, l+++ (A++=) (++== ) whose limit in law is not otherwise known.