with

$$
\rho(y, x, \eta') = \varphi(y, \eta') - \varphi(x, \eta') - (y - x)\varphi\_x(x, \eta'),
$$

o vanishes at order > 2 in y = x. For checking (3.10), we see

$$(3.11)\qquad Q(ae^{i\frac{\varphi}{\hbar}}) = \int\int e^{i\frac{1}{\hbar}((x'-y')\theta' + \varphi(y,\eta'))} \frac{q(x,\theta')}{(2\pi\hbar)^{n-1}} a(y,\eta') \, dy' d\theta'$$

a having compact support and o being a symbol, one has |4 | ≤ C' on supp(qa), so for |0 | ≥ C > 0, large, the phase of (3.11) H = (x' - y')0' + y(y, m') satisfies

$$|H\_{y'}'| \ge c(1 + |\theta'|), \quad \text{for } |\theta'| \ge C > 0, \text{ large}$$

and if we split the integrand of (3.11) in qa = x(0)ga+(1-2(0'))ga, we integrate the second term by parts and obtain

$$(3.12)\tag{3.12} = \quad \qquad Q(ae^{i\frac{\varphi}{\hbar}}) = Q'\_{\varphi}(a)e^{i\frac{\varphi}{\hbar}} + R(a),$$

where Q . is a G symbol of order Smk+1 having the expansion (3.10) by the stationary phase lemma as R(a) is an Os(ho) remainder. It is easy to see in view of these arguments that at E Sm-1.4. Moreover, it is to be observed that the above expansion is only a formal Gevrey 2s — 1 symbol.

The microlocal invertibility of FIO reduces to the PDO case. We refer to [5] for a proof of the Gevrey elliptic result in classes Sm.

For proving Theorem 2, we rewrite (3.8) in the form

$$(hD\_{x\_1} + Q(x, hD\_x; h))Fu = F(hD\_{x\_1} + Q')u,$$

close to (x0, 50) for some PDO Q'(x, h.Dg; h) of bi-order (-1,0) in using a left microlocal inverse of F close to (xo, E,). Indeed, we compute FF, and one has writing y = (x1,y).

One has, following Eskin |8 ,

$$FF^\*u(x,h) = \frac{1}{(2\pi h)^{n-1}} \iint e^{\frac{i}{\hbar}(\varphi(x,\xi') - \varphi(y,\xi'))} a(x,\xi') \overline{a(y,\xi')} u(x\_1,y') \, dy' \, d\xi',$$

( (x, {') having been obtained in (3.6). We split the integral above into two terms. The first is a h-PDO, the second is a smoothing operator. First, we note that the map:

$$(x, y', \xi') \rightarrow (x, y', \Sigma(x, y', \xi')),$$

with

$$
\Sigma(3.13) \qquad \qquad \Sigma(x, y', \xi') = \int\_0^1 \varphi\_{x'}'(x\_1, y' + t(x' - y'), \xi') \, dt
$$

is a G-diffeo in a neighbourhood of (xo, yo, m) with |x1 | ≤ o, x - y' ≤ δ, 0 < δ small, close to the identity.

Let (x, y', n') -> (x, y', Σ-1(x, y', η')) be an inverse map.

One has obviously (x, {') - ((y, {') = {(x, y', {')(x' - y'), and

$$(3.14)\qquad \qquad FF^\*u(x,h) = K\_1u(x,h) + K\_2u(x,h),$$