arbitrary pair (j\_, j+). We can see that each ellipsoid can be chosen one after another and disjointly, for each critical point of the function 72,1,1|50.60 corresponding to each vertex v of degree at least 3.

We can put an ellipsoid of the standard form centered at some point and containing the point (72,1,1(vo)-evo,+,j) € PD(So,ec },1 ((72,1,1(vo)+Evo,-,j) €2,1,1(vo)+Evo,-,j) € FD1so.con, 1) in the interior in such a way that the boundary Dy - D;i of its closure contains a point py € So,ce\_with T2,1,1(Py) = 72,1,1(vo). We also do in such a way that the intersection (Dy - Djr) D{Socc } is mapped by 72,1,1 into R as an injective function with the minimum (resp. maximum) 72,1,1(vo) . Remember that the relations 0 < €vo,- j, €vo,+,j < € < € are satisfied and that the numbers €00,- ,j1 and &vo, -, j2 (€vo, +, j2) are mutually disjoint for distinct numbers j1 and j2 and sufficiently small. Remember also that the relation avo, - , j1 < @0, -, j2 holds for an arbitrary pair (j1, J2) with j1 < 12, that the relation avo, + in < 000, + .j2 holds for an arbitrary pair (j1, j2) with j1 < j2, and that the relations avo, - j\_ < @00,+,j+ and avo - e' < avo,-,j\_, avo,+,j+ < avo + e' hold for an arbitrary pair (j\_, j+). We can see that each ellipsoid can be chosen one after another, disjointly, and disjoint from the previous ellipsoids, for each critical point of the function 72,1,1|50,60 corresponding to each vertex vo of degree 1.

We put ellipsoids Dy of the standard form one after another to have our desired result.

Proposition 1. In the present inductive procedure, for a step putting an ellipsoid Djr centered at the point xj := (72,1,1(v) ± €2,±,j) or xy := (72,1,1(v) ± Evo, L,j, avo, L,j), we abuse the notation from Definition 4. First, Dji is (S, Ds)-connected.

In addition, we assume at least one of the following in a step in the procedure.

- · At least one ellipsoid centered at a point of the form (T2,1,1(V)±6,±,jo,10,±,jo, has been put in the case v is of degree at least 3.
- · At least one ellipsoid centered at a point of the form (T2,1(V0)上Evo,±,jo) has been put in the case vo is of degree 1.

Under this additional assumption, the pointed set (Dj, xj) is (S, Ds, ADs)-PLS and it is not (S, Ds, ADs)-PS.

Proof. The first part follows from assumptions on a sufficiently small positive number €0 > 0, another sufficiently small one € > 0, and sufficiently small ones with the relations 0 < Ev,-,j, Ev,+,j,Evo,-,j,Evo,+,j < < < €.

We see the additional part. The set Dy contains a point of the boundary Dj -Dy such that the value of the projection 72,1,1 there is 72,1,1(v) or 72,1,1(v). The set Dir contains no point from FDs 2 by considering the local shape of the curve So.cc. From the additional assumption, there exists at least one point different from this such that the value of the projection 72.1.1(v) or 72.1.1(v) or 72.1.1(vo) in FDs,1. We can easily check that the pointed set (Dj, xir) is (S, Ds, ADs )-PLS and it is not (S, Ds, ADs)-PS.

We present another example as our new result.

Theorem 5. We also abuse the notation from Definition 4 here. In our steps here, for each pair of ellipsoids of the standard form centered at (T2.1.1(vo) -