We are now ready to present the Bianchi-Egnell type stability for the fractional Hardy-Sobolev inequality (1.1).

Proof of Theorem 1.3. Clearly the sharpness of the result follows from the Lemma 3.2 above.

Suppose that the theorem is not true. Then we can find a sequence (un)k>1 in Hs (RN) such that

$$\lim\_{k \to \infty} \frac{\|u\_k\|\_{\dot{H}^s}^2 - \mu\_{s,t} \|\|x\|^{\frac{2\gamma}{2s(t)}} u\_k\|\_{2^\*\_s(t)}^2}{d(u\_k, \mathcal{M})^2} = 0 \tag{3.8}$$

Since the ratio in (3.8) is homogeneous of degree 2 in uk, we may also suppose that ||uk|||}, = ps, + for all k ≥ 1. Moreover, 0 € M implies that d(uk, M) = ||uk||js = > | Thus, up to a subsequence still denoted by uk, we see that d(uk, M) -> L E [0, Jus,t].

We now consider two cases, specifically L = 0 and L > 0.

When L = 0 < x [ ] = ; we can assume (if required up to a further subsequence still denoted by ux ) that for all k ≥ 1 one has d(uk, M) < 745, = ||uk|||js. Lemma 3.1 now gives that the above ratio is greater than or equal to a + o (1) -> a > 0 as k -> ∞ and it's a contradiction to (3.8).

Thus L > 0 and then we must have that the numerator of the above ratio goes to 0 as k → ∞, this in turn satisfies the hypothesis of Lemma 3.3. Consequently, we obtain

$$L = \lim\_{k \to \infty} d(u\_k, \mathcal{M}) \le \lim\_{k \to \infty} \|u\_k - U\_{s,t}^{\lambda\_k}\|\_{\dot{H}^s} = 0$$

and this gives us the desired contradiction.

## 4. PALAIS-SMALE DECOMPOSITION

Although the energy functional associated with our problem (1.3) is given as in (3.7), for purely technical reasons, we consider the following normalized functional

$$I\_{s,t}(u) := \frac{1}{2} \|u\|\_{\dot{H}^s}^2 - \frac{1}{2^\*\_s(t)} \left\| |x|^{-\frac{t}{2^\*\_s(t)}} u \right\|\_{2^\*\_s(t)}^{2^\*\_s(t)}.\tag{4.1}$$

There is a one-to-one correspondence between the critical points of (4.1) and the critical points of (3.7). Specifically, one has that u E H8 (RV) is a weak solution to (1.3) (i.e., a critical point of (3.7)) if and only if us 2 = 2 u is a weak solution to the normalized Euler-Lagrange equation

$$\begin{cases} ( - \Delta)^s u = \frac{|u|^{2^s\_s(t) - 2} u}{|x|^t} & ; u \in \dot{H}^s \left( \mathbb{R}^N \right) \\ u > 0 \text{ in } \mathbb{R}^N \end{cases} \tag{4.2}$$

(i.e., a critical point of (4.1)). Due to this one-one correspondence, all the crucial properties of the energy functional are unchanged, therefore we only analyze the normalized functional moving onward.

Definition 4.1. We say that the sequence (un)n>1 C Ho(RN) is a Palais-Smale sequence for Ist at level B ((PS) g condition in-short ), if Is, (un) -> B and (Is, } (un) -> 0 in ( H® (Rº ) ) as n -> co. The functional Is,t is said to satisfy (PS) condition if every (PS) g sequence has a convergent subsequence in HP (RN).

It is easy to see that the weak limit of a (PS) sequence solves (4.2) except for the positivity. However, the main difficulty is that the (PS) sequence may not converge strongly and the weak limit can be zero even if B > 0. The content of this section is the classification of (PS) sequences of the functional Is given in the next proposition and the proof follows by arguments analogous to [4, Theorem 2.1].

Proposition 4.2. Let (un)n>1 C H\*(R\*) be a Palais-Smale sequence for Ist at level β. Then up to a subsequence (still denoted by un) the following properties hold:

Г