Notice that ni = n; ^ n2. Thus,

$$\bigwedge\_{i=1}^{2} n\_i = \bigwedge\_{i=1}^{2} (n\_i^1 \wedge n\_i^2).$$

Since (a1 ^ a2) ^ n; = 0 for each i, we get

$$0 \neq (a\_1 \land a\_2) \land n\_i = (a\_1 \land a\_2) \land (n\_i^1 \land n\_i^2) = (a\_1 \land n\_i^1) \land (a\_2 \land n\_i^2).$$

This implies that a1 ^ n = + 0 and a2 ^ n = + 0. Since a1 ~u b ; and a2 ~ u b>, we have

$$a\_1 \land \left(\bigwedge\_{i=1}^2 n\_i^1\right) \neq 0 \quad \text{and} \quad a\_2 \land \left(\bigwedge\_{i=1}^2 n\_i^2\right) \neq 0.$$

Thus,

$$((a\_1 \wedge a\_2) \wedge \left(\bigwedge\_{i=1}^2 n\_i\right) = (a\_1 \wedge a\_2) \wedge \left(\bigwedge\_{i=1}^2 (n\_i^1 \wedge n\_i^2)\right) \neq 0.1$$

Therefore, (a1 ^a2) ~u(b1 ^ b2) +.

(3) Let x1 and x2 be nonzero elements in by such that x1 1x2 # 0 and (a ^ b) ^ xx = 0 for each k. This implies αΛ(bΛxχ) + 0 for each k. Also, observe that Λέρι (b Λxx) = ΒΛ (x1 Λx2) = Σι Λx2 = 0. Since α is a u-element in L, this implies that

$$(a \wedge b) \wedge (\mathbf{x}\_1 \wedge \mathbf{x}\_2) = a \wedge \left(\bigwedge\_{k=1}^2 (b \wedge \mathbf{x}\_k)\right) \neq \mathbf{0},$$

proving the desired claim.

(4) We can assume a + 0 and a + 1, because otherwise b = 1 or b = 0 respectively, and the thesis holds. We can also assume that c & b, because otherwise b v c = b ~ b . Let x > b and x2 > b such that (x1 ^x2)>band ((bvc) ^x)>b, for each k. The latter condition is equivalent to bv(c ^xx)> b, which is equivalent to c ^xk & b. We need to show that

$$(b \lor c) \land \mathbf{x}\_1 \land \mathbf{x}\_2 > b,$$

which is equivalent to c ^ x1 ^x2 x b. Since b is a pseudo-complement of a in L, c ^x1 ^x2 x b holds if and only if

$$a \land c \land \mathbf{x\_1} \land \mathbf{x\_2} \neq \mathbf{0}.$$

Now, consider the elements a,x1,x2 € L. a ^x1 ^x2 + 0 because otherwise we would have x1 ^x2 < b, as b is a pseudo-complement of a. Moreover c Ax + 0 for each k, because otherwise we would have c ^xx < b. Finally c ^ a + 0, because otherwise c < b, contradicting our assumption. As c is a u-element in L, we conclude that c ^ a ^ x1 ^ x2 = 0, which proves the claim. 

Remark 3.16. - An analogue of part (2) of Proposition 3.15 does not hold for upsets. Consider the frame of power set P(X) of the set X = {1,2,3,4,5}. We have {1,2} ~u(1} and {3,4} ~2(3} ^, by Remark 3.12. However, it is easy to see that {1,2} v {3,4} = {1,2,3,4} is not a u-element in { 1, 3} = { } v { 3} . Moreover, it is also not a u-element in P(X ).

Proposition 3.17. - Let L be a frame, a € L, and b a pseudo-complement of a in L. If c & L is maximal relative to the properties a ≤ c and b ^ c = 0, then a ~>u c .