3. SKEW SHAPED POSITROID VARIETIES

3.1. Positroid varieties. First, we recall equivalent ways of describing positroid varieties in the Grassmannian: Grassmann necklaces and bounded affine permutations.

Definition 3.1.1. A (k,n)-source Grassmann necklace I = (11,12, ... , In) is an n-tuple of k-element subsets I¿ ≤ (n where

- · if i = I; then there exists j ∈ [n] such that Ii\_1 = (I; \ {{}) U{j}, and
- · if i & I; then Ii = I¿-1.

We denote by GN(k,n) the set of (k,n)-Grassmann necklaces.

Remark 3.1.2. Note that if i E I; then it may be that I2-1 = I; = (I; \ {i}) U {i}. Finally, note that I2-1 \ I; is either empty or a singleton.

Remark 3.1.3. Grassmann necklaces were first defined in [24]. Our definition is slightly different, as we use I = 1 instead of I +1, this difference is indicated by the word source in the name.

Definition 3.1.4 ([19]). A bijection f : Z -> Z is called a (k, n)-bounded affine permutation if it satisfies the following conditions:

- (1) f(i + n) = f(i) + n for every i E Z.
- (2) For every i E Z, i < f(i) < f(i) < f(i) + n.
- (3) We have:

$$\sum\_{i=1}^{n} (f(i) - i) = nk.$$

Note that, by (1), f is uniquely determined by the values f(1), ... , f(n), which are pairwise distinct modulo n. We often simply denote f = [f(1), ... , f(%)]. Note also that, upon the presence of (1) and (2), (3) is equivalent to |{i ∈ |n| : f(i) > n}| = k. We denote the set of (k, n)-bounded affine permutations by BA(k, n). We say that f is a bounded n-affine permutation if there exists k such that f is a (k,n)-bounded affine permutation.

Lemma 3.1.5. The sets GN(k,n) and BA(k,n) are in natural bijection.

In the proof, we will need the following definition.

Definition 3.1.6. We define the cyclic order ≤ on the set |n|: i <; i + 1 <; i + 2 <; ··· <i n <i 1 <i ···· <i i = 1.

Proof of Lemma 3.1.5. This is essentially a combination of [19, Corollary 3.13] and [23, Remark 2.4). For the reader's convenience and to fix notation, we provide the bijection o : GN(k,n) -> BA(k,n). Let us first describe fz := (Z) (mod n) through its inverse f= : we have f=1(i) = i if I;-1 = I;, and f=1(i) = j if Ii=1 \ I;= {j}. To lift this to a bounded affine permutation, we set fz(i) = i + n if Iz-1 = I; and fz(i) = i if i & I;. On the other hand, if f : Z -> Z is a k-bounded affine permutation, let I = {i = |v| | f(i) = i + n}, and f = f (mod n). Then I; consists of I together with the elements {a E [n] | a < }(a)}. The collection Z = = (11, ... , In) is a Grassmann necklace, and f -> If, are inverse bijections.

Now, we associate a Grassmann necklace and a bounded affine permutation to an element V in the Grassmannian Gr(k, n) following [19, 24]. We represent V by a k x n matrix of rank k, up to row operations, and denote by v1, . . , 0% € C\* the columns of V. Furthermore, we