particular with semisimple isometry group G. The holonomy group at a point p coincides with the isotropy K of the factor Y (see [2, Proposition 10.79]). On the other hand, the fixed space of the K-action at p is exactly X . Therefore, the stabilizer of p preserves the factor X . The rest follows similarly as above.

## 3. INJECTIVITY OF THE DEVELOPING MAP

In this section we assume that X = X x Y is a simply connected Lorentz symmetric space whose Lorentz factor X = Xx is the universal model of constant curvature k. A compact manifold M locally isometric to X is an (Isom(X), X )-manifold in the sense of (G, X )-structures (see [15, 38]). That is, we have a local diffeomorphism D : M -> X and a representation p : m (M) -> Isom(X) satisfying the equivariance property Dy = p(y)D for all y E T1(M). The local diffeomorphism D is called the developing map and p is called the holonomy representation.

3.1. Natural foliations. Proposition 2.5 implies that a compact manifold M locally isometric to X = X > Y inherits two transverse foliations F1 and F2 where the leaves of F1 are Lorentz of constant curvature locally modeled on Xx and the leaves of J2 are Riemannian modeled on Y. The same applies to M, we have two foliations F1 and F2.

Lemma 3.1. Let M be a compact manifold locally isometric to X. Each leaf of F2 is mapped, under the developing map, bijectively and isometrically onto a vertical Riemannian fiber { x } x Y .

Proof. The compactness of the manifold M implies that each leaf of the foliation J2 is complete (with respect to its Riemannian structure locally modeled on Y). Hence each leaf J2(p) of the foliation F2 is also complete. The developing map D, restricted to F2(p), is a local isometry between F2(p) and a corresponding fiber {xo} × Y. Since F2(p) is complete, then D : F2(p) → {xo} x Y is a covering map. But Y being simply connected implies that D : F2(p) → {xo} × Y is in fact an isometric diffeomorphism. ■

Corollary 3.2. The universal cover M is mapped, under the the developing map, onto Ω x Y where S2 C XK is an open subset.

3.2. A natural action on M. Since each leaf of F2 is identified canonically under the developing map to Y = G/K, we obtain a well-defined G-action on M for which the developing map is G-equivariant. Since the developing map is isometric, we have

Corollary 3.3. The G-action on M is isometric, proper, and with orbits the F-2-leaves.

3.3. Product structure of the universal cover. We have seen in Corollary 3.2 that D(M) = Ω x Y where Ω C Xx is an open subset. The subset Ω = D-1 (Ω × {y}) is a global cross section of the F2-foliation. Indeed, consider the map o : M -> Y where o = π ο D and π : X x Y -> Y is the natural projection. We have o--(y) = Ω and, by construction, σ is G-equivariant. Since each leaf F2(p) is identified under the map o with Y, then F2(p) intersects o -1(y) = 0 exactly in one point. In other words, 92 is a leaf of F1 which is a global cross section of the foliation F2.

Corollary 3.4. The universal cover M is globally isometric to Ω x Y

In particular, Ω is a connected and simply connected Lorentz manifold of constant curvature K. The injectivity of the developing map D : M -> Xx x Y is then equivalent to the fact that Ω isometrically embeds in XK.

3.4. The injectivity. We have seen in Corollary 3.4 that M = Ω x Y and Ti(M) = I C Isom(s) x G acts freely, properly, and cocompactly on M where G is the isometry group of Y. Frances in [10, Sect. 6] considers, among many other things, a similar situation (in fact a more general setting of warped products). He observed [10, Proposition 6.9] that the injectivity result in the works of Carrière and Klingler [7, 24] can be adapted to the product setting. That is,