distance at least K from each of u, v, w. We cannot have dc(w, y(x, y)) < K since then we get do(x,w) < K + K = 2K, which is impossible as x E P(u, v). Similarly, we cannot have dc(u,Q(x,y)) < K. Assume, by way of contradiction, dc(v,Q(x,y)) < K. Then, there is a vertex z E Q(x,y) with dg(v,z) < K. Assuming, without loss of generality, dc(x,z) ≤ dc(z,y), we get dg(v,x) ≤ dc(v, z)+dc(z,x) ≤ K-1+(K-1)/2 = 3/2(K-1) < {}K]. The latter contradicts the choice of vertex vw as being a vertex of P(u, v) n DG(v, | | K |) furthest (along the path P(u, v)) from v. This proves that the K1,3-minor constructed is K-fat.

Now, we can assume that all three paths P(vw, wo), P(w, wo), P(ww, wa) are pairwise at distance at least K. In this case, we can build a K-fat K3-minor in G. Set Ho := G[Dc(v, [3K])], Hu := G[Dc(u, [3K])], Hw := G[Dc(w, [3K])]. It is easy to see that these connected subgraphs Ho, Ha and paths P(vi, un), P(vo, w), P(vw, wa) form a K-fat Kgminor in G. Recall that dc(v, P(u,w)) ≥ 4K, dc(u, P(v, w)) ≥ 4K and dc(w, P(u, v)) ≥ 4K. Hence, if dc(V(Ho),V(Hu)) < K, then dc(v,u) < [3K] + K + [3K] ≤ 4K, which is impossible. If dc(V(Ho),P(uw,Wa)) < K, then dc(v,P(u,w)) < | | K | + K < 3K, which is also impossible. By symmetries, the K3-minor constructed is K-fat. 门

Note that, in the proof of Lemma 12, we constructed very specific K-fat (K3, K1,3)-minors. In our K-fat K3-minor, the connected subgraphs H1, H2, H3 are disks. In our K-fat K13minor, the connected subgraphs H1, H2, H3 are singletons and the paths Px0, i = 1,2, 3, are shortest paths. Even more specific K-fat (K3, K1.3)-minors were obtained in [1]. It was shown that if a graph G contains no (≥ K)-subdivision of K3 as a geodesic subgraph and no (≥ 3K )subdivision of K1,3 as a 3-quasi-geodesic subgraph, then pb(G) ≤ 18K +2 (see [1] for details and definitions).

From Lemma 12, we immediately get the following corollary.

Corollary 7. If G has neither K -fat K3-minor nor K-fat K13-minor, then mci(G) < 4K -1. In particular, mci(G) < 4 · mfi(G) + 3.

Proof. The first part of Corollary 7 follows from Lemma 12. For the second part, let mfi(G) = K - 1. Then, G has neither K-fat K3-minor nor K-fat K13-minor. By the first part, mci(G) ≤ 4K - 1 = 4(K - 1) + 3 = 4 · mfi(G) + 3. ロ

Combining Lemma 11 and Corollary 7 with Theorem 4, we get.

Theorem 5. For every graph G,

n

$$\text{mfi}(G) \le \text{mci}(G) \le 4 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 3,$$

$$\text{mfi}(G) \le \text{pl}(G) \le 16 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 10,$$

$$\frac{\text{mfi}(G)}{2} \le \text{pat}(G) \le 8 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 5,$$

$$\frac{\text{mfi}(G) - 1}{2} \le \text{adc}(G) \le 16 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 10,$$

$$\text{mfi}(G) \le \Delta(G) \le 16 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 12,$$

$$\frac{\text{mfi}(G)}{4} \le \text{dsp}(G) \le \text{dpr}(G) \le 8 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 5$$

$$\frac{\text{mfi}(G)}{2} \le \text{pcc}(G) \le 16 \cdot \text{mfi}(G) + 10.$$