Theorem 3.6. Let x \_ (0, ... , n - 1) be an irreducible score, so that C n (0, 0)"×" + 0. Then

$$\lim\_{k \to \infty} M^k = \arg\min\_{L \in C} D(L, M^0) = \arg\min\_{L \in C} H(L). \tag{3.9}$$

Proof. Note that dom(h) = R+, idom(h) = (0, ∞) and bdom(h) = {0}. It is easy to check:

- (1) h is a proper convex function. Moreover, h is closed because {x € dom(h) : h(x) ≤ a} is closed for all a E R.
- (2) h is Legendre because
	- · h is differentiable on idom(h);
	- · lim++0+ h(x + t(y x))(y x) = o for all x E bdom(f) and y = idom(h);
	- h is strictly convex on idom(h).
- (3) h is co-finite because lim+x = 40 for all x + 0.
- (4) h is very strictly convex because h"(x) > 0 for all x E idom(h).

Since C1, C2, C3 are all affine subsets, it suffices to apply [7, Theorem 4.3] to conclude.

See also [45] for recent development on the convergence rate of Bregman's iteration under further technical assumptions, which we do not pursue here.

Next we propose a computational scheme inspired by Theorem 3.6. The key is to compute numerically, for each M E (0, 0)"\*", its Bregman projection on Ck. We distinguish three cases:

· k = 1: We introduce the Lagrange multiplier x = (λ1,...,λπ) ∈ 限", and set Φ(L, λ) := D(L, M) + Σ; 1 λε (Σ' = 1 ). Differentiating Φ with respect to mij and λε yields θι; Φ = log(li;) - log(maj) + λ; and θληΦ = Σ';\_1 lij - 1. By setting these to zero, we get

$$\arg\min\_{L\in C\_1} D(L,M) = \left(\frac{m\_{ij}}{\sum\_{k=1}^n m\_{ik}}\right)\_{1\le i,j\le n}.\tag{3.10}$$

· k = 2: The same reasoning as in the previous case yields:

$$\arg\min\_{L\in C\_2} D(L,M) = \left(\frac{m\_{ij}}{\sum\_{k=1}^n m\_{kj}}\right)\_{1\le i,j\le n}.\tag{3.11}$$

· k = 3: Define Φ(L, λ) := D(L, M) + Σ;\_1 λί (Σ)=1(j - 1)/¿j - x; ), and differentiate \$ with respect to mij and Ài yields Ou., \$ = log(lij) - log(mig) + x(j - 1) and 0x2 = >= (j - 1)2j - x;. Setting these to zero yields

$$\arg\min\_{L\in C\_3} D(L,M) = \left( m\_{ij} r\_{ij}^{j-1} \right)\_{1 \le i,j \le n},\tag{3.12}$$

where rij is the unique positive root to the polynomial equation >== (j-1)majri-1 xi = 0. Let f(r) := ∑==(j - 1)mijm3-1 - xi. It is easy to see that f is strictly increasing on [0,00) with f(0) ≤ 0 and lim, xx f(r) = +00. Thus, it is easy (and quick) to find a numerical root of f on [0, ∞) by Newton's method.