with global minima at index to there are exactly >>> (k - 1)ki-1 descents by Theorem 5.3. The number of inversions can be expressed through the values of the permutation before the minimum: I(k,n,w)= ""(g=1) === (k"=i = km=i-(co);) = ""(g=1) === (cm=i = km=i-w;+1).

Now, we describe some bounds on the number of descents and inversion in the stable configuration depending on the permutation. We start with permutations with an increasing tail.

Proposition 6.1. Given permutation w, if there exists an in E N such that for all indices i ≥ io, we have w; < w;+1, then Ck;n;w has at most ≥4={(k -1)k;1-1 descents and at most (5) ∑; - k=1("")") inversions.

Proof. Because w; < w;+1 for all integers i such that i ≥ ig, we find that (cw); = 0 for all i ≥ ig. Therefore, the support of co is a subset of [io - 1]. Thus, by Theorem 5.3, we have that there are at most > = (k - 1)k3-1 descents in Ck.m.w.

Because (Cw)¿= 0 for all i ≥ io, we have

$$I(k,n,w) = \binom{k}{2} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} k^{i-1} \binom{k^{\langle c\_w \rangle\_i}}{2} k^{2n-2i-2\langle c\_w \rangle\_i} = \frac{k-1}{4} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} (k^{2n-i} - k^{2n-i-\langle c\_w \rangle\_i}).$$

Since for each i, we have (cw); ≤ n - i by definition of Lehmer code, we obtain

$$I(k,n,w) \le \frac{k^n(k-1)}{4} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} (k^{n-i} - k^{n-i-\langle n-i\rangle}) = \frac{k(k-1)}{4} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} k^{n-1}(k^{n-i}-1) = \binom{k}{2} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} k^{i-1} \binom{k^{n-i}}{2} \cdot \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} k^{n-i-\langle n-i\rangle} = \binom{k}{2} \sum\_{i=1}^{i\_0-1} k^{n-i-\langle n-i\rangle}$$

One can observe that the upper bounds on the number of inversions and descents in Proposition 6.1 are tight.

Example 24. Consider any positive integers ig, n, k such that io < n and k ≥ 2. Let w be a permutation in Sp defined by w; = n+1-i for i E |io-1| and w; = i-io+1 for i E {io, ig+1, ... , n}. This is a special case of a valley permutation, where the increasing part consists of smaller numbers than the decreasing part. We obtain that the Lehmer code of this permutation is (Cw)j = n - i for each i E [io - 1] and (cw); = 0 for i E {i + 1,i + 2, ... , %}. Therefore we obtain from Theorem 4.1 that the number of inversions in the stable configuration Ck,n,w resulting from firing strategy Fo is (2) > 12-1 ki-1 (""). This is exactly the upper bound on the number of inversions in Ck,n,w for w with increasing tail starting at io.

Also observe that Theorem 5.3 and the fact that supp(cw) = [io - 1] imply that Ck,n,w has exactly > 227 (k - 1)kh-1 descents. This is equal to the upper bound on the number of descents in Ck,n,w from Proposition 6.1.

On a similar note, we calculate the lower bound for the number of inversions and descents in Ck.n.w in the case where w has a decreasing tail.