of system (29) we can see that en is a real and positive root of the polynomial

$$Q(s) \coloneqq \alpha s^{m+1} + \alpha s - 1,\tag{30}$$

and, in view of Descartes' rule of signs, there is a unique such en. Then

$$e\_j = \left(\prod\_{k\geq j+1} \alpha\_k\right) e\_n,\text{ for all } j \in [n-1],\tag{31}$$

and hence e E int (BG) is unique.

Several studies (see e.g. Sanchez (2009b) and the references therein) derived conditions guaranteeing that the equilibrium e E int (Bc) is globally asymptotically stable. Tyson (1975) analyzed the special case of (29) with n = 3. He noted that if e is locally asymptotically stable, then one may expect that all solutions converge to e, and proved that system (29) admits a periodic solution whenever e is unstable. For n = 3, the model can also be studied using the theory of competitive dynamical systems (Smith, 1995). The case n = 3 has also been analyzed using the theory of Hopf bifurcations (Woller et al., 2014). For a general n, the analysis using Hopf bifurcations becomes highly non-trivial and results exist only for special cases, e. g. under the additional assumption that all the a;'s are equal, see Invernizzi and Treu (1991). Hastings et al. (1977) studied the general n-dimensional case and proved that, if the Jacobian of the vector field at the equilibrium has no repeated eigenvalues and at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part, then the system admits a non-trivial periodic orbit; the proof relies on the Brouwer fixed point theorem.

Our Theorem 2 allows us to prove the following result.

Corollary 3 Consider the n-dimensional Goodwin model (29) with n ≥ 3, and let e denote the unique equilibrium in int (Bc). Let J : R", -> R"×" denote the Jacobian of the vector field of the Goodwin model. Suppose that J(e) has at least one eigenvalue with a positive real part. Then, for any initial condition a E RSo \ {e} such that s (a - e) ≤ 1, the solution x(t, a) of (29) converges to a (non-trivial) periodic orbit as t -> ∞.

## PROOF.

The Jacobian of (29)

$$J(x) = \begin{bmatrix} -\alpha\_1 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 0 & -\frac{mx\_n^{m-1}}{(1+x\_n^m)^2} \\ 1 & -\alpha\_2 & 0 & \dots & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & -\alpha\_3 & \dots & 0 & 0 \\ \vdots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots & \vdots \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & -\alpha\_{n-1} & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & \dots & 1 & -\alpha\_n \end{bmatrix}$$

has the sign pattern A2 in (3) for all x E R3, hence the system is 2-cooperative on R3,. We