by U(X) in Alt. In fact, one may verify that the semi-direct product B x U(X) with multiplication

$$(b, x) \cdot (b', x') = (bb', xx' + \varphi(b)x' + x\varphi(b'))$$

is an alternative algebra. We thus have a natural isomorphism

$$\text{SplExt}(- , U(X)) \cong \text{Hom}\_{\mathbf{Alt}}(- , U(X))$$

and we can state the following.

Theorem 3.2. The category Alt1 is action representable with the actor of a unitary alternative algebra X being isomorphic to X itself. 

## 4. POISSON ALGEBRAS

The aim of this section is to prove that the categories Pois1 of unitary Poisson algebras and CPois1 of unitary commutative Poisson algebras over a field F with char(F) = 2 are action representable.

We recall that a Poisson algebra is a vector space X over F equipped with two bilinear multiplications

$$\cdot \colon X \times X \to X \quad \text{and} \quad [-,-] \colon X \times X \to X$$

such that (X, .) is an associative algebra, (X, [-, -]) is a Lie algebra and the Poisson identity holds:

$$[x,yz] = [x,y]z + y[x,z], \quad \forall x,y,z \in X.$$

A Poisson algebra is said to be commutative (resp. unitary) if the underlying associative algebra is commutative (resp. unitary).

It was proved in |6| that for any Poisson algebra X there exists a natural monomorphism of functors

$$\tau\colon \operatorname{SplExt}(- , X) \longmapsto \operatorname{Hom}\_{\mathbf{Alg}^2}(\vec{U}(- ), [X]),$$

where Alg2 denotes the category of algebras with two non-necessairly associative bilinear operations, U : Pois -> Alg2 is the forgetful functor and

$$\{X\} = \{f = (f \ast -, - \ast f, [f, -]) \in \text{Bin}(X) \times \text{Der}(X) \mid \cdot \cdot \}$$

·············································································································································································· is the universal strict general actor of X, which is endowed with the bilinear multiplications

$$f \cdot g = (f \ast (f' \ast -), (- \ast f) \ast f'), \\ f \ast [f', -] + [f, -] \ast f')$$

and

$$[f,g] = (f\*[f',-] - [f',f\*-],[f',-]\*f - [f',-\*f],[f,[f',-]] - [f',[f,-]]).$$

Furthermore, a morphism y = (91, 22, 93): Ü(B) -> [X] belongs to Im(7B) if and only if (01, 92): (B, .) -> Bim(X) is an acting morphism in Assoc.

If X has trivial annihilator or (X2, ) = (X, ), then eq. (3.1) holds in Bim(X) and we have a natural isomorphism

$$\operatorname{SplExt}(- , X) \cong \operatorname{Hom}\_{\mathbf{Alg}^2}(U(-), [X]).$$

This happens, for instance, when X is a unitary Poisson algebra. In this case, it is possible to prove that [X] is a Poisson algebra. Indeed, by the results in Section 3, the universal strict general actor [X] may be described as the subalgebra of all pairs (a, [f, -]) E X x Der(X) such that

$$\alpha[x, y] = [\alpha x, y] - [f, y]x,$$

$$[x, y]\alpha = [x\alpha, y] - x[f, y]$$