From now on we will drop the subscript from the notation C'≤k;ω .

For a sequence s denote by o(s) and d(s) respectively its Schnirelmann density and asymptotic density. Namely,

$$
\sigma(s) = \inf\_{n} \frac{A(n)}{n},
$$

and

$$d(s) = \lim\_{n \to \infty} \frac{A(n)}{n} \quad \text{if it exists,}$$

where A(n) = |{i : si ≤ n} |.

Recall Mann's theorem, relating sumsets to Schnirelmann densities:

Theorem 3.4 (Mann's Theorem |Man42)). For subsets A and B of N, if the sumset A + B + N, then

$$
\sigma(A+B) \ge \sigma(A) + \sigma(B) \quad holds.
$$

We now use Mann's theorem together with the results above to establish Theorem 1.4.

Proof of Theorem 1.4. By Lemma 3.3 it is enough to prove P(C(Sk.4) = 1. By Lemma 3.1 Chil is a tail event, and by Lemma 3.3 we have P(C'Skir') = P(C", w), so it is enough to prove that P(C'Sty") > 0. From EX < k if follows that d({Wn}neN) > {. Introduce the random variable N by

$$N = \min\left\{ n : \forall m \ge n, \quad \frac{A(m)}{m} > \frac{1}{k} \right\}.$$

Since > P(N = n) = 1, it follows that 3no such that P(N = no) > 0.

We now distinguish two cases.

Case 1: 1 E SuppX.

We have

P (N = no for the sequence generated by { Xi }i>no) > 0,

and since 1 E SuppX, we have

$$P(X\_1 = X\_2 = \dots = X\_{n\_0} = 1) > 0.$$

Since these two events deal with distinct parts of the i.i.d. sequence { Xi i>no; with positive probability both events occur simultaneously. Now, let us evaluate the Schnirelmann density o({W;};>1) for such sequences of gaps. We have

$$
\frac{A(n)}{n} \ge \begin{cases} 1 & \text{if } n \le n\_0 \\ \frac{1}{2} & \text{if } n\_0 < n \le 2n\_0 \\ \frac{1}{k} & \text{if } n > 2n\_0 \end{cases},
$$

where the first two inequalities follow from the choice of the first no gaps and the last one from the condition N = no.

Thus we get P (o(W) ≥ { } > 0 and Mann's theorem implies asymptotic ≤ k-completeness with the same positive probability.

Case 2: 1 € SuppX .