Lemma 4. The function det An:3 has the same sign as on in some neighborhood of the triangular boundary of the region 0 < x1 < x2 < 1. Hence, it is negative in this neighborhood if n < 472 and positive si n > 473.

The proof follows by an analysis of the dominant terms in different pieces of the boundary.

Lemma 5. In the Newtonian case if 456 < n < 472, the function An(x) x) vanishes at least once on each of the intervals (0,0.098) and (0.098, 1). If 473 < n ≤ 874, the function An(x, Jx) vanishes at least once on each of the intervals (0,0.97) and (0.97, 1).

Proof of Lemma 5 We must study the roots in the interval (0,1) of the equation

$$\det A\_{n;3}(x,\sqrt{x}) = \delta\_n^3 + p\_n(x,\sqrt{x})\delta\_n + q\_n(x,\sqrt{x}) = 0,$$

where

$$\begin{array}{rcl}p\_n(x,\sqrt{x})&=&-k\_n(x)k\_n(1/x)-2k\_n(\sqrt{x})k\_n(1/\sqrt{x})\\q\_n(x,\sqrt{x})&=&k\_n(x)k\_n(1/\sqrt{x})^2+k\_n(1/x)k\_n(\sqrt{x})^2.\end{array}$$

From the analysis of pn(x, vx) and qn(x, xx) for x close to 0 and x close to 1 it follows that if n ≤ 472 (resp. n ≥ 473) the determinant An;3(x, vx) is negative (resp. positive) in a neighborhood of x = 0 and x = 1.

Hence, to prove the Lemma, it is enough to check numerically that

- · for each integer 456 ≤ n ≤ 472, An;3(0.098, v0.098) is positive.
- · for each integer 473 ≤ n ≤ 874, An:3(0.97, √0.97) is negative.

This amounts to a finite number of checks.

The question of the positivity of the masses is more involved. In fact, not all the (x1, x2) for which det An:3(x1, x2) = 0 have corresponding masses such that all of them are positive.

The figure below displays curves in (x1, x2) for which det Am3(x1, x2) = 0 for the admissible range of n. The curve for n = 456 looks like a small ellipse around P = (0.098, v0.098), while the one for n = 874 looks like a small ellipse around Q = (0.97, √0.97). The last curve of index 1 around P has n = 472, while the first curve of index 1 around Q has n = 473.