Note that the level lines {{x1,x2} E R2 : 2U(x1) + x2 = r2} for all 0 < |r| < (20)-1/2 correspond to T(r)-periodic solutions

$$\begin{aligned} \dot{x}\_{1,0}(t,r) &\equiv r \operatorname{sn} \left( \frac{t}{\sqrt{k\_r^2 + 1}}, k\_r \right) \sqrt{k\_r^2 + 1}, \\ \dot{x}\_{2,0}(t,r) &\equiv r \operatorname{cn} \left( \frac{t}{\sqrt{k\_r^2 + 1}}, k\_r \right) \operatorname{dn} \left( \frac{t}{\sqrt{k\_r^2 + 1}}, k\_r \right), \\ T(r) &\equiv 4\mathcal{K}(k\_r) \sqrt{k\_r^2 + 1}, \quad \nu(r) \equiv \frac{2\pi}{T(r)}, \end{aligned} \tag{8}$$

where sn(u, k), cn(u, k), dn(u, k) are the Jacoby elliptic functions, K(k) is the complete elliptic integral of the first kind, and k, ∈ (0,1) is a root of the equation (k, + k,-1)-2 = 0,2/2. Define auxiliary 2πperiodic functions

$$X\_1(\varphi, r) \equiv \hat{x}\_{1,0}\left(\frac{\varphi}{\nu(r)}, r\right), \quad X\_2(\varphi, r) \equiv \hat{x}\_{2,0}\left(\frac{\varphi}{\nu(r)}, r\right). \tag{9}$$

It can easily be checked that

$$\nu(r)\partial\_{\varphi}X\_1 = X\_2, \quad \nu(r)\partial\_{\varphi}X\_2 = -U(X\_1),$$

$$2U(X\_1) + X\_2^2 \equiv r^2, \quad \det \frac{\partial(X\_1, X\_2)}{\partial(\varphi, r)} \equiv \begin{vmatrix} \partial\_{\varphi}X\_1 & \partial\_{\varphi}X\_2\\ \partial\_r X\_1 & \partial\_r X\_2 \end{vmatrix} \equiv \frac{r}{\nu(r)}.$$

Hence, the transformation (9) is invertible for all 0 < |r| < (20)-1/2 and φ ∈ [0,2m). Then, by applying Itô's formula [39, §4.2], it can be shown that in the variables (r, ø) system (7) takes the form (1) with μ(t) = t-1/4, so = 3/2, si = 0,

$$\begin{aligned} a\_i(r, \varphi, S, t) \equiv t^{-\frac{n}{4}} a\_{i,n}(r, \varphi, S) + t^{-\frac{p}{2}} a\_{i,2p}^\varepsilon(r, \varphi, S), \quad i \in \{1, 2\}, \\\alpha\_{i,j}(r, \varphi, S, t) \equiv t^{-\frac{p}{4}} \alpha\_{i,j,p}(r, \varphi, S), \quad i, j \in \{1, 2\}, \end{aligned} \tag{10}$$

where

$$\begin{split} &a\_{1,n}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv \frac{X\_2(\varphi,r)}{r} \left(\mathcal{Q}(S)X\_1(\varphi,r) + \mathcal{P}(S)X\_2(\varphi,r)\right), \\ &a\_{1,2p}^{\varepsilon}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv \frac{\varepsilon^2 \mathcal{B}^2(S)U(X\_1(\varphi,r))}{r^3}, \\ &a\_{2,n}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv -\frac{\nu(r)\partial\_r X\_1(\varphi,r)}{r} \left(\mathcal{Q}(S)X\_1(\varphi,r) + \mathcal{P}(S)X\_2(\varphi,r)\right), \\ &a\_{2,2p}^{\varepsilon}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv -\frac{\varepsilon^2 \mathcal{B}^2(S)\nu(r)}{2r} \partial\_r \left(\frac{\partial\_r X\_1(\varphi,r)X\_2(\varphi,r)}{r}\right), \\ &\alpha\_{1,1,p}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv \frac{\mathcal{B}(S)X\_2(\varphi,r)}{r}, \\ &\alpha\_{2,1,p}(r,\varphi,S) \equiv -\frac{\mathcal{B}(S)\nu(r)\partial\_r X\_1(\varphi,r)}{r}, \end{split}$$

and 011,2,0(r,y, S) = 02,2,0(r,y,S) = 0. Note that 0 < v(r) < 1 for all 0 < |r| < (20)-1/2. Hence, there exist K, x E Z+ and 0 < |ro| < (20)-1/2 such that the condition (6) holds.

If G(x,y, S) = 0 and & = 0, then r(t) = co and y(t) = v(co)t + do with arbitrary constants @ and 00. Numerical analysis of the system with G(x, 3; S) = 0 and = = 0 shows that, depending on the values of the perturbation parameters, two cases are possible. In the first case, the amplitude of the solutions either tends to zero or grows until it reaches the boundary of the considered domain, depending on the sign of Qo (see Fig. 1, a). In the second case, the solutions with an asymptotically constant amplitude r(t) ~ ro may appear (see Fig. 1, b). The emergence of such solutions is associated with the capture of the system into resonance. If & + 0, the stochastic perturbations may disrupt such a behaviour (see Fig. 1, c).