We finally show that the set Ar is contained within a neighborhood of size N-1e-M around a hyperplane in Fo((X-+))". For any x ∈ C, define y = e(?+1)10 (x - xo) in Z2, so that

$$g\_t u\_x = u\_y g\_t u\_{x\_0}.$$

Consider a linear functional \$ c of norm 1 that is zero on the hyperplane Ht, c = geuro, Ho. Then, we have

$$d([e\_1], g\_t u\_x H\_C) = d([e\_1], u\_y H\_{t,C}) \asymp d([u\_{-y}e\_1], H\_{t,C}) \asymp \phi\_{t,C}(u\_{-y}e\_1)$$

Thus, if x E Ac, we obtain @; c(u\_ge1) ≤ e-10, implying that y lies within a neighborhood of size O(e = %) of the affine hyperplane in Fg((X-1))™ defined by

Φt.C(e1 - y1e2 - ··· - Ynen+1) = 0.

This means that x lies in a neighborhood of size O(N-1e-14) around an affine hyperplane in Fo((X-1))". The number of subcubes of C that intersect this neighborhood is bounded by

$$
\lesssim\_n N^n e^{-M},
$$

and thus we obtain

$$\text{card}\,K\_l(C) \ge N^n(1 - O\_n(e^{-M})) = N^n - O\_n(N^{n - \frac{1}{n+1}}).$$

Now, we proceed to the proof of Theorem 1.1.

Proof of Theorem 1.1. To obtain a lower bound for the Hausdorff dimension of Koo, we apply the Mass Distribution Principle. This argument follows identically from the work of [BdS23], but we include the proof here for the sake of completeness.

For l ≥ 1, define

$$b\_l = \begin{cases} \lfloor N^n (1 - R\_3 e^{-\frac{M}{n}}) \rfloor & \text{if } l\_{k-1}^+ < l \le l\_k^- \\\ 1 & \text{if } l\_k^- < l \le l\_k^+. \end{cases}$$

We also replace Ko by a Cantor subset Fo that is more regular in nature. Removing some cubes in K at each step, we obtain the subset Foo C Ko given as

$$F\_{\infty} = \bigcap\_{l \ge 1} F\_l,$$

where each cube C in Fi\_1 contains exactly by subcubes in Fi. As stated in Proposition 1.7 of [Fal90], there is a probability measure u that is supported on For each cube C at level l (with C C Fi), we have the relationship

$$\mu(C) = \frac{1}{b\_1 b\_2 \dots b\_l}.$$

We propose that if & is smaller than the limit inferior

$$\liminf\_{l \to \infty} \frac{\log(b\_1 b\_2 \dots b\_l)}{l \log N}.$$

then there exists a constant C = Cn.N.c such that for every x E Fa((X-1)) and for all radii r > 0,

$$(B(x,r)) \le Cr^{\alpha}.$$

To justify this, choose I such that N=1 < r ≤ N-4+1. The ball B(x, r) can intersect no more than (3N)™ cubes from Fi. Hence, we have

$$\mu(B(x,r)) \le (3N)^n \cdot (b\_1 b\_2 \dots b\_l)^{-1} \le (3N)^n N^{-l\alpha} \le (3N)^n r^{\alpha}$$

L