whose center vertex is x, by adding an edge vx and a pendent 4-cycle at vertex v. In that case, by Proposition 2.6, there is a hop dominating set S of H, such that x E S and |S| ≤ 2022, which implies that SU {v} is a hop dominating set S of G, a contradiction. Thus such a path P exists. Note that k > 2.

## Claim 3.10. k ∈ {2,3}

Proof. Suppose that k > 4. Let G' = (G-xx1) +x1x4. Note that x1x2x2x401 is a pendent 4-cycle at x4 in G'. Note that |V(G')] = n, |E(G')| = |E(G)|, and G' has more pendent 4-cycles than G.

Suppose that dege(x) ≥ 3. Then 8(G') ≥ 2 and G' has no connected component in B. There is a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that x4, v, x ∈ S' and Nc(x4) N S' ≠ 0 by Proposition 2.7. By the choice of G, |S'| ≤ ½. Thus S' is a hop dominating set of G, which is a contradiction.

Suppose that deg (x) = 2. Then let H be the connected component of G' containing x4. Note that |V (H)| ≤ n - 5. There is a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that x4 € S', Ne (x4) 1.5' + 0 by Proposition 2.7. If S' contains x1, then we replace x1 with x3 so that S' does not have x1. Then S' U { v, x} is a minimum hop dominating set of G, a contradiction. -

Let G' = G - { x1, ... , ak - }. Suppose that dego(x) ≥ 3. Then o(G') ≥ 2. If G' has no connected component in B, then take a minimum hop dominating set S' of G' such that v, x E S' by Proposition 2.7, which implies that S' is a minimum hop dominating set of G, a contradiction. Thus, G' has two connected components D1 and D2. We may assume that D1 & B and D2 E B. There is a hop dominating set S1 of D1 such that v, x E S1 and |S1| ≤ 201021 by Proposition 2.7. If k = 3 or D2 + Cg, then by (3.1), there is a minimum hop dominating set S2 of D2 such that |S2| < 34(02) = 26=1). If k = 2 and D2 = Co, then we take a minimum hop dominating set S2 of a path D2 - x2 such that |S2| = 3 < 2110221246-12. Note that S1 US2 is a hop dominating set of G. Then

$$|S\_1 \cup S\_2| \le \frac{2|V(D\_1)| + 2|V(D\_2)| + 2(k - 1)}{5} = \frac{2n}{5},$$

which is a contradiction.

Suppose that deg (x) = 2. Let H be the connected component containing xk. Then | < ( + ) ≤ n - 6. If H + Co, then for a minimum hop dominating set S of H, we have |S| < 2012 by (3.1), and so SU{v, x} is a hop dominating set of G whose size is at most ª, a contradiction. Thus H = Co. Then G is one of the last two graphs in Figure 6, which shows that 7h(G) ≤ ª This completes the proof of our main theorem.

## An open problem র্বা

It would be a natural extension to consider giving a sharp upper bound on the hop domination number for a graph with a large girth. So we propose the following open problem.