## 3.3. Global existence.

Theorem 3.10. Assuming that (3.2) and (3.3) are satisfied, then the conclusions in Theorem 3.4 hold for any T > 0.

Proof. By Theorem 3.4, we may assume that (3.1) has a unique solution (u, g, h) defined on some maximal time interval (0, Tm) with Tm E (0, 0], and

$$h, g \in C^{1 + \frac{\beta}{2}}((0, T\_m)), \quad u \in C^{1 + \frac{\beta}{2}, 2 + \beta}(\Omega\_{T\_m}),$$

where S2m := {(t,x) : t E (0,7m),x E [g(t),h(t)}}. To complete the proof, we must demonstrate that Tm = o. Suppose Tm < o. Then, by the proof of Theorem 3.4, along with Lemmas 3.9 and 3.9, there
exist positive constants C1, C2 = C2(Tm), such that for t = [0, Tm) and x ∈ [g

$$0 \le u(x, t) \le C\_1, \quad |h'(t)| + |g'(t)| \le C\_2, \quad |h(t)|, |g(t)| \le C\_2 t + h\_0.$$

For any small constant & > 0, it follows from the proof of Theorem 3.4 and Lemmas 3.8 and 3.9 that u, e c 1+4, \*\* (17m = ). Thus, as in Step 4 of the proof of Theorem 3.4, applying Schauder's estimates,
for any fixed 0 < To < Tm − ε, we obtain || الامتحدث 8 (07) > < (2", w and Ct for i = 1, 2, but is independent of s. Since & > 0 can be made arbitrarily small, it follows that for any t E (To, Tm),

$$\|u(t, \cdot)\|\_{C^{2+\beta}([g(t), h(t)])} \le Q^\* .$$

By repeating the arguments used in the proof of Theorem 3.4, we can conclude that there exists T > 0 small, depending on Q\* and C; (i = 1,2), such that the solution to (3.1) with initial time Tm = = can be extended uniquely to t = Tm - 7 + T > Tm, a contradiction to the definition that Im is the maximal time interval for the solution. Thus, we must have Tm = ∞. -

3.4. Proof of Theorem 3.1. Let us first note that f(t, x, 1) = 0 and f(t, x, u) < f(u) < 0 for u > 1 imply f(1) = 0. Let Mo = max{||u0||0, 1} and v(t) be the solution of

$$v' = f(v), \ v(0) = M\_0.$$

Since f(v) < 0 for v > 1, we clearly have 1 ≤ v(t) ≤ Mo and v(t) → 1 as t → ∞ ≤ f(t, x, ω) ≤ f(t) for u ≥ 1, we obtain

$$v\_t - dv\_{xx} = f(v) \ge f(t, x, v) \text{ for } t > 0, x \in [g(t), h(t)].$$

We also have v ≥ 1 > δ = u for x ∈ {g(t),h(t)} and v(0) = Mg ≥ u(0, x) for x ∈ [-hg, ho]. Therefore the standard comparison principle over the region {(t, x) : t > 0, x ∈ [g(t), h(t)]} infers u(t, x) ≤ v(t) in this region. It follows that

$$(3.31) \qquad \limsup\_{t \to \infty} u(t, x) \le \lim\_{t \to \infty} v(t) = 1 \text{ uniformly for } x \in [g(t), h(t)].$$

To bound u(t, x) from below, we first make use of (3.4) to show that there exists 70 > 0 such that u(t,x) ≥ o for t ≥ To and x ∈ [g(t), h(t)]. (3.32)

Similar to the proof of Theorem 1.1, since f satisfies (fA), we are able to choose a function f E C1 sufficiently close to f in LS such that f(s) ≤ f(s) for s ≥ 0, and f satisfies (Fp) with (P,Q) = (0,0) for some 0 € [0, 6) n (0, 6). Then, by Lemma 2.1, the traveling wave problem (2.4) has a solution pair (c,q) = (co, go) with co > 0 and qo(.) strictly increasing.

The same reasoning as in the proof of Theorem 1.1 shows that for some L > 0 sufficiently large,

$$\underline{u}(t,x) := \max\{q\_0(ct - x - L), q\_0(ct + x - L)\}$$

satisfies (in the weak sense)

$$
\underline{u}\_t \le d \underline{u}\_{xx} + \underline{f}(\underline{u}) \le f(t, x, \underline{u}) \quad \text{for } t > 0, \ x \in \mathbb{R}
$$

Additionally,

$$0 \le \underline{u}(t, x) \le \delta \le u(t, x) \text{ for } t > 0, \ x \in \{g(t), h(t)\},$$

and

u(0,x) < uo(x) for x E |-ho, ho].

Therefore we can apply the standard comparison principle over {(t,x) : t > 0, x ∈ [g(t), h(t)}} to deduce u(t,x) >u(t,x) in this region.

Moreover, using

$$\lim\_{t \to \infty} \|\underline{u}(t, \cdot) - \delta\|\_{L^{\infty}(\mathbb{R})} = 0,$$