with C" := CNash.d |||E|||-2- 2 , and finally

$$\frac{1}{2}\frac{d}{dt}\|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t,\cdot,\mathbf{y})\|\_{\mathbf{L}^{2}(\Omega)}^{2} \leq -C^{\prime\prime}\|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t,\cdot,\mathbf{y})\|\_{\mathbf{L}^{2}(\Omega)}^{2+\frac{4}{d}} + \|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t,\cdot,\mathbf{y})\|\_{\mathbf{L}^{2}(\Omega)}^{2}.$$

Denoting q(t) := |||[2(t, ; y)||{2(0) | , we see therefore that

$$q'(t) \ge \frac{4}{d} \left( C'' - q(t) \right),$$

which implies

$$q(t) \ge C^{\prime\prime} \frac{4}{d} t \operatorname{e}^{-\frac{4}{d} \mu},$$

so that in the end

$$\|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t,\cdot,\chi)\|\_{\mathcal{L}^2(\Omega)}^2 \le \left(C^{\prime\prime}\frac{4}{d}\right)^{-\frac{d}{2}}e^{2T}t^{-\frac{d}{2}}.$$

This yields the claimed L2 bound.

For the L " bound, note first that the Laplace operator is self-adjoint, so that Tg(t,x, y) = ГΩ(t, y, x). By the semigroup property, we therefore find that

$$\begin{aligned} \Gamma\_{\Omega}(t,x,\mathsf{y}) &= \int\_{\Omega} \Gamma\_{\Omega}(t/2, \mathsf{x}, z) \, \Gamma\_{\Omega}(t/2, z, \mathsf{y}) \, \mathrm{d}z \\ &\leq \|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t/2, \mathsf{x}, \cdot)\|\_{\mathrm{L}^{2}(\Omega)} \, \|\Gamma\_{\Omega}(t/2, \cdot, \mathsf{y})\|\_{\mathrm{L}^{2}(\Omega)} \\ &\leq \|\Gamma \underline{\alpha}(t/2, \cdot, \mathsf{x})\|\_{\mathrm{L}^{2}(\Omega)} \, \|\Gamma \underline{\alpha}(t/2, \cdot, \mathsf{y})\|\_{\mathrm{L}^{2}(\Omega)} \end{aligned}$$

and we use the already established L2 bound to conclude.

A direct interpolation between the L and L estimates yields the LP estimate stated in the Lemma. Finally, the self-adjointness argument leads to the second group of estimates.

In the context of the domains appearing in the proof of Proposition 5 (but keeping the notations of Lemma 11), we write down for the related geometry the following statement:

Lemma 12. Fix T > 0. Then there exists a constant Cf , such that for any domain

$$\mathfrak{Q} := B\_d(0, R) \cap \{ (\mathbf{x'}, \mathbf{x}\_d) \in \mathbb{R}^d : \mathbf{x}\_d > \phi(\mathbf{x'}) \}$$

for R > 0 and φ : Red -- > R with ||Vφ||∞ ≤ == with 0Ως, = Ba(0, R) ೧ {x', xa) E Rd : xa = φ(x')} and dla = 02 \ 02m the constant Co.T.a appearing in Lemma 11 is bounded by Co 2

Proof. For the domain considered in the statement, we need an extension operator E for functions f € H2 (2) such that f |02a = 0, for the norms H1 and L1 .

We can first extend f to 24 := {(x',xa) E Rd : xd > \$(x')} by setting E1f = 0 on Ω+ \Ω, and E1 f = f on Q. Recalling that flacg = 0, we see that ||E1||H1-H1 = 1 and ||E1||L1-L1 = 1. We then use Lemma 10 (with 2 in this lemma corresponding to 24 here) to build the operator E2 from H2(Q2) to H1(R4), so that still thanks to Lemma 10, ||E2 E1|| = |||E2||| ≤ 2 || + 13222 , and we conclude the Lemma by setting E := E2 E1. n

We now write down an estimate which is a direct consequence of Lemma 11, and which will be used several times in the sequel.