Proof of Theorem 3.7. First, note that JA has a unique measure of maximal entropy n and its push forward measure u = m n is a measure of maximal entropy of gA1 because T is bounded to one which guarantees hu(gA) = hn(fA) (e.g. see [39]) and, hence, h(gA) = h(fA) = hp(fA) = hu(gA) (see [25] for the definition of metric entropy).

Next let us prove the uniqueness of the measure of maximal entropy of 94. To do so, let us fix any measure of maximal entropy û for gA. Theorem 2.12 implies that g A has the periodic specification property, which ensures the existence of a sequence ûn of measures supported on periodic points pn such that û is the weak\* limit of ûn (see [25, Proposition 21.8]). Let qn be any periodic point qn E n-1 (m) and let in be the measure supported on qn. Then fin = T. (nn). Without loss of generality we may assume that (în)new converge in the weak\* topology to a measure î. But then, by continuity of the push-forward operator Tx we have Tx = û and as a consequence

$$h(g\_A) = h\_{\hat{\mu}}(g\_A) \le h\_{\hat{\eta}}(f\_A) \le h(f\_A) = h(g\_A).$$

This proves that n = n and consequently that is, µ is the unique measure of maximal entropy of gA.

It remains to prove that u is the weak\* limit of un. A difficulty that arise is how to lift precisely the sequence (un)neN to the Torus since the sequence (1/n)nEN defined by

$$
\eta\_n = \frac{1}{\text{Per}\_n(f\_A)} \sum\_{p \in P\_n(f\_A)} \delta\_p,
$$

which converge to n by Bowen's proof, does not project to (un)neN. Indeed, the antipodal periodic points are also in the pre-image of periodic points of ga. An attempt would be to include the antipodal periodic points in the definition of these measures and consider the sequence ( îm )men defined by

$$\hat{\eta}\_n = \frac{1}{\mathrm{Per}\_n(f\_A) + \mathrm{Per}\_n^-(f\_A)} \sum\_{p \in P\_n(f\_A) \cup P\_n^-(f\_A)} \delta\_p.$$

But mn still does not project to un and the problem relies on the existence of the spines (points with a single pre-image). Thus, we rule out these points as follows: for each n E N, let

$$P\_n^\*(g\_A) = \{ p \in P\_n(g\_A) : \#\pi^{-1}(p) = 2 \}, \quad \text{Per}\_n^\*(g\_A) = \#P\_n^\*(g\_A),$$

$$\text{and} \quad \hat{\mu}\_n = \frac{1}{\text{Per}\_n^\*(g\_A)} \sum\_{p \in P\_n^\*(g\_A)} \delta\_p.$$

Since there are only four points with a single pre-image, we have

$$|\operatorname{Per}\_n(g\_A) - \operatorname{Per}\_n^\*(g\_A)| \le 4.$$

Thus, (un)neN and (in)neN converge weakly\* to exactly the same measure, provided the limit exists. For each n E N, let

$$P\_n^\*(f\_A) = \pi^{-1}(P\_n^\*(g\_A)) \quad \text{and} \quad \text{Per}\_n^\*(f\_A) = \#P\_n^\*(f\_A) = 2\operatorname{Per}\_n^\*(g\_A),$$

and note that for n sufficiently large we have

$$\frac{\operatorname{Per}\_n(f\_A)}{2} \le \operatorname{Per}\_n^\*(f\_A) \le 3 \operatorname{Per}\_n(f\_A).$$