which implies

$$\sum\_{k=0}^{N} \alpha\_k \left( |\Theta(x^k)| + \frac{||t^k||^2}{2} \right) \le \frac{1}{\beta} (\Phi\_j(x^0) - y\_j), \quad \ddots \ \theta(x^k) < 0.1$$

Since the right-hand side of the above inequality is finite and inequality holds for any positive integer N, then we get

$$\sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} \alpha\_k \left( |\Theta(x^k)| + \frac{||t^k||^2}{2} \right) < \infty.$$

The above inequality implies the result of this lemma.

Theorem 4.1. Suppose that D is convex in component-wise sense (i.e., Φ is R™- convex) and the Assumption 1 holds. Then any sequence produced by Algorithm 3.1 converges to a WPOS x\* E R".

Proof. Since by Algorithm 3.1, {Φ(x")} is a component-wise decreasing sequence, then by assumption, there exists x E R" such that

$$\Phi(\tilde{x}) \le \Phi(x^k) \text{ for all } k = 0, 1, 2\dots \text{.} \tag{4.18}$$

It is observed that 0 < ak ≤ 1 for all k, so

$$\begin{aligned} \|x^{k+1} - x^k\|^2 &\le \frac{1}{\alpha\_k} \|x^{k+1} - x^k\|^2 \quad \text{for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \dots \\ &\le \frac{1}{\alpha\_k} \|\alpha\_k t^k\|^2 = \alpha\_k \|t^k\|^2 \quad \text{for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \dots \ (: \, x^{k+1} = x^k + \alpha\_k t^k). \end{aligned}$$

Therefore, by above inequality, (4.18), and Lemma (4.5) we obtained

$$\sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} ||x^{k+1} - x^k||^2 \le \sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} \alpha\_k ||t^k||^2 < \infty.$$

Thus,

$$\sum\_{k=0}^{\infty} ||x^{k+1} - x^k||^2 < \infty. \tag{4.19}$$

Let us define L = {x E R" : Φ(x) ≤ Φ(xh), k = 0,1,2, ... }. By the component-wise convexity of @ and Lemma 4.3, for any x ∈ L we have

$$\|x - x^{k+1}\|^2 \le \|x - x^k\|^2 + \|x^k - x^{k+1}\|^2 \text{ for all } k = 0, 1, 2, \dots$$

As L is non empty because x E L, by (4.19) and the above inequality, it follows that {; m} is quasi-Fejer convergent to the set L. Then by Theorem 2.4, { x bounded and hence { z. h } has an accumulation point. Let x\* be one of them. Then by Lemma 4.4, x\* E L. Then by Theorem 2.4, we observe that { x "} converges to x . Therefore, by Theorem 3.3, x\* is a critical point, and hence R" - convexity implies that x\* is a weak Pareto optimal solution for Φ.