designed to treat a serious or life-threateningful therapeutic benefit over available therapies upon a determination that the product candidate has an effect on a surrogate clinical endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA considers a clinical benefit to be a positive that is clinically meaningful in the context of a given disease, such as irreversible morbidity or mortaliy. For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endporatory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to per itself a measure of clinical benefit. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible mortality that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible mortality or mortality or other clinical benefit. The accelerated approval pathway of a new drug over available therapy may not be a dinically important improvement improvement from a patient and public heath perspective. If granted aproval is usually contingent on the sponsor's agreement to conduct, in a diligent manner, additional postapproval confirmatory studies to verify and describe the FDA is permitted to require, as apropriate, that such studies be underway prior to approval or within a specified atter the date of approval. Sponsors must also update FDA on the studies, and under the Food and Drug Omnibus Reform Act of 2022, or FDORA, the FDA has increased authority to withdraw approval of a drug granted accelerated approval on an expedited basis if the sponsor fails to timely manner, send the necessary updates to the FDA, or if such post-approval studies fail to verify the drug's predicted clinical benefit.

Prior to seeking accelerated approval, we will seek feedback foreign regulatory authorities and will otherwise evaluate our ability to seek and receive such approval. There can be no assurance that after our evaluation of the feedback and other factors we will deide to pursue or submit a BLA for accelerated approval or any other form of expectived approval. Similarly, there can be no assurance that after subsequent feedback form the FDA, EMA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities we will continue to pursue or apply for accelerated approval or any other form of expedited development, review or approval, even if we initially decide to do so. Furthermore, if we decide to submit an application for accelerated application will be acceptication will be accepted or that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The FDA, EMA or other regulatory authorities could also require us to conduct urther studies prior to considering or granting approval of any type, including, for example, if other products are approved via the accelerated pathway and subsequently converted by FDA to full approval. A failure to obtain accelerated approval or any other form of expedited development, review or approval for our product candidate would result in a longer time period to of such product candidate, could increase the cost of development of such product candid harm our competitive position in the marketplace. Moreover, even if we are able to obtain accelerated approval for any of our product candidates, there is no guarantee that post-approval studies will be clinical benefit, which could cause FDA to withdraw our approval.

## The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are interently unpredictable. If we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if BMS is ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approvals for Abecma in additional or expanded indications, we will be unable to recognize product revenue and our business will be substantially harmed.

We cannot commercialize a product until the appropriate requlatory authorities have reviewed and addidate. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities is unpredictable, typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical studies and depends upon numerous factors, including the product candidates involved. Regulator authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept an application for review, or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies.

In September 2020, the FDA accepted for priority review the BLA submitted by BMS for Aberman for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma and the FDA approved this BLA in Mach 2021. However, obtaining one regulatory approval does not the FDA will conclude that the information BMS has submitted for earlier line indications and may submit for additions for Abecma will be sufficient to support approval for those indications and BMS may fail to obtain additional requlatory approvals in