# Financing Objectives

We use secured and unsecured debt as a means of provisition of assets, to pay distributions, fund redemptions, and for other corporate purposes. While a large percentage of our debt financings may typically be comprised of longterm, fixed-rate loans, our use of leverage generally increases the risk of default on loan payments and the resulting foreclosure on a particular asset or group of assets. Upon a default, our lenders may also have recourse to assets other than those specifically securing the repayment of the indebtedness. Our ability to enhance our increase our diversification by acquiring assets using additional funds provided through borrowings could be adversely impacted if the credit markets are closed or limited and banks and other lending institutions impose severe restrictions on the amount of funds available for the types of loans we seek. We have sourced, and may continue to source, institutional or other capital through joint venture partnerships to help diversify risk associated with development and value-add opportunities. See Item 1A, "Risks Related to Debt Financing" for further detail.

### Competition

The market for the acquisition of inclusive. We competitive. We compete for real property investments with other RETTS and institutional investors, such as pension funds and their advisors, private real estate investment funds, insurance company investment accounts, private investment companies, individuals and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including certain other entities sponsored or advised by affiliates of the Sponsor, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do and generally may be able to accept more risk, including risks relating to the creditivorthiness of potential customers, the breadth of the markets in which to invest, or the leverage they are willing to take on. They also may possess significant competitive advantages that result from, a lower cost of capital or greater operating efficiencies associated with a larger platform.

The market for the leasing of industrial real estate is also very competition for customers from other existing assets in proximity to our buildings, as well as from proposed new developments. As a result, we may have to provide free rental periods, incur charges for tenant improvements, all of which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

# Significant Customers

We are dependent upon the ability of current customers to pay their contractual rent amounts as the rents become due. As of December 31, 2023, there was one customer that individually represented more than 5.0% of total annualized base rent, and our 10 largest customers represented approximately 22.2% of total annualized base rent of our portiolio. We are not aware of any current customers whose inability alone to pay their contral amounts would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. See Item 2, "Properties," for further detail about customer diversification.

# Conflicts of Interest

We are subject to various potential conflicts of interest that could arise out of our relationship with the Advisor and related parties, including: conflicts related to the compensation arrangements among the Advisor, certain affiliates and related parties, and us; conflicts with respect to the allocation of the Advisor's and its key personnel's time; conflicts related to our potential acquisition of assets from affiliates of the Advisor: and conflicts with respect to the allocation of investment and leasing opportunities. Futher. entities currently sponsored by or that in the future may be advised by affiliates of the Sponsor, affiliated entities own interests, may compete with us or may be given priority over us with respect to the acquisition of certain types of investments. As a result of our potential competition with these entities, certain investment and leasing opportunities that would otherwise be available to us may not in fact be available. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Affiliates," for additional detail. The independent directors have an obligation to function on our behalf in all situations in which a conflict of interest may arise and have a fiduciary obligation to act on behalf of our stockholders.

#### Compliance with Federal, State and Local Environmental Laws

Properties that we acquire, and the properties underlying our investments, are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Under these laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous owner of real estate (including, in certain circumstances, a secured lender that succeeds to ownership or control of a property) may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at, on, under, or in its property. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or control party knew of or was responsible for the release