## 3 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

## w. Income tax (continued)

ii. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities arise from deductible and taxable temporary differences respectively, being the differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the tax bases. Deferred income tax assets also arise from unused tax losses and unused tax credits.

All deferred income tax liabilities, and all deferred income tax assets to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilized, are recognized. Future taxable profits that may support the recognition of deferred income tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences include those from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences , provided those differences relate to the same taxable entity, and are expected to reverse either in the same period as the expected reversal of the deductible temporary difference or in periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred income tax asset can be carried back or forward. The same criteria are adopted when determining whether existing taxable temporary differences support the recognition of deferred income tax assets arising from unused tax losses and credits, that is, those differences are taken into account if they relate to the same taxation authority and the same taxable entity, and are expected to reverse in a periods, in which the tax loss or credit can be utilized.

The amount of deferred income tax recognized is measured based on the expected manner of realization or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted at the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized and the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.

The carrying amount of a deferred income tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable to allow the related tax benefit to be utilized. Any such reduction is reversed to the extent that it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available.

- iv. Current income tax balances and deferred income tax balances, and movements therein, are presented separately from each other and are not offset. Current income tax assets are offset against current income tax liabilities, and deferred income tax assets against deferred income tax liabilities, if the Groups have the legally enforceable right to set of current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the following additional conditions are met:
	- in the case of current income tax assets and liabilities, the Groups intend either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously; or
	- in the case of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either
		- the same taxable entity; or
		- different taxable entities, which, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred income tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered, intend to realize the current income tax assets and settle the current income tax liabilities on a net basis or realize and settle simultaneously.