## Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Section 3: Capital Expenditure, Operating Assets and Restoration Obligations 3.4 RESTORATION OBLIGATIONS Provisions for future removal and environmental restoration costs are recognised where there is a result of expiration, development, production or storage activities having been undertaken, and it is probable that future outflow of ed homic benefits will be required to settle the obligations include the costs of removing facilities, abe doning wells and restoring the affected areas and is the present value of the future expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date, based on current . Any changes in the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration provision at the reporting change in the cost of the associated asset. h the restoration provision is reduced, the cost of the related oil and gas asset is reduced by an amount not exceeding its arry || y value. If the decrease in restoration exceeds the carrying amount of the excess is recognised immediately · the income statement as other income. amount of the provision for future restoration, development and production facilities is capitalised and ed as a component of the cost of those activities. Significant judgement - Provision for restoration The Group estimates the future removal and restoration costs of oil and gas production facilities, wells, pipelines and related assets at the time of installation of the assessments periodically. In most instances the removal of these assets will occur many years in the future. The estimate of future removal costs therefore requires management to make judgements regarding the removal date, future environmental legislation and the extent of restoration activities required. e arous neered provisions for restoration ebiogetions as rollews.

Note 
 (Restated) 2016 2015 US\$million US\$million 69 52 1,726 1,399 1,468 1.778 Total restoration US\$million Balance at 1 January 2016 1.778 impact of changes in future restoration assumptions – restoration asset (18) lmpact of changes in future restoration assumptions - other income (37) Provisions used during the year (25) Unwind of discount 41 isposal of provision (56) hange in discount rate (111) ransferred to liabilities held for sale (99) Exchange differences (5) 1,468 Balance at 31 December 2016

Payments made into escrow accounts relating to future restoration obligations included in the table above of \$62 million (2015: \$52 million) are included within other non-current financial assets (note 5.5(f)).

## her provisions

h addition to the provision for restoration shown above and employee provisions in note 7.1, other items for which a provision has been recorded are other current provisions \$7 million), and other non-current provisions \$52 million (2015: nill,