[{"bbox": [210, 71, 373, 95], "category": "Page-header", "text": "Table of Contents"}, {"bbox": [210, 210, 1232, 322], "category": "Text", "text": "risk of not reaching the statutory minimum of 1.35% by September 30, 2028, the statutory deadline. Based on this update, the FDIC approved an increase in the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules by two basis points, applicable to all insured depository institutions. The increase was effective on January 1, 2023, applicable to the first quarterly assessment period of the 2023 assessment (January 1 through March 31, 2023)."}, {"bbox": [210, 347, 1234, 544], "category": "Text", "text": "In addition, because the total cost of the failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank was approximately $16.3 billion, the FDIC adopted a special assessment for banks having deposits above $5 billion, at an annual rate of 13.4 basis points beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2024 (January 1 through March 31, 2024) with an invoice payment date of June 28, 2024, and will continue to collect special assessments for an anticipated total of eight quarterly assessment periods. The base for the special assessment is equal to an insured depository institution's estimated uninsured deposits for the December 31, 2022 reporting period, adjusted to exclude the first $5 billion in estimated uninsured deposits."}, {"bbox": [210, 570, 1198, 683], "category": "Text", "text": "**Supervisory Assessments.** National banks are required to pay supervisory assessments to the OCC to fund the operations of the OCC. The amount of the assessment is calculated using a formula that considers the bank's size and its supervisory condition. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Bank paid supervisory assessments to the OCC totaling $431 thousand."}, {"bbox": [210, 707, 1243, 762], "category": "Text", "text": "**Capital Requirements.** Banks are generally required to maintain capital levels in excess of other businesses. For a discussion of capital requirements, see \"—The Role of Capital\" above."}, {"bbox": [210, 787, 1227, 1012], "category": "Text", "text": "**Liquidity Requirements.** Liquidity is a measure of the ability and ease with which bank assets may be converted to meet financial obligations such as deposits or other funding sources. Banks are required to implement liquidity risk management frameworks that ensure they maintain sufficient liquidity, including a cushion of unencumbered, high quality liquid assets, to withstand a range of stress events. The level and speed of deposit outflows contributing to the failures of Silicon Valley Bank, Signature Bank and First Republic Bank in the first half of 2023 was unprecedented and contributed to acute liquidity and funding strain. These events have further underscored the importance of liquidity risk management and contingency funding planning by insured depository institutions like the Bank."}, {"bbox": [210, 1039, 1239, 1378], "category": "Text", "text": "The primary roles of liquidity risk management are to: (i) prospectively assess the need for funds to meet financial obligations and (ii) ensure the availability of cash or collateral to fulfill those needs at the appropriate time by coordinating the various sources of funds available to the institution under normal and stressed conditions. Basel III includes a liquidity framework that requires the largest insured institutions to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. One test, referred to as the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, or LCR, is designed to ensure that the banking entity has an adequate stock of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets that can be converted easily and immediately in private markets into cash to meet liquidity needs for a 30-calendar day liquidity stress scenario. The other test, known as the Net Stable Funding Ratio, or NSFR, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of FDIC-insured institutions over a one-year horizon. These tests provide an incentive for banks and holding companies to increase their holdings in Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets, increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source and rely on stable funding like core deposits (in lieu of brokered deposits)."}, {"bbox": [210, 1403, 1234, 1459], "category": "Text", "text": "Although these tests do not, and will not, apply to the Bank, the Company continues to review its liquidity risk management policies in light of regulatory requirements and industry developments."}, {"bbox": [210, 1484, 1240, 1768], "category": "Text", "text": "**Dividend Payments.** The primary source of funds for the Company is dividends from the Bank. Under the National Bank Act, a national bank may pay dividends out of its undivided profits in such amounts and at such times as the bank's Board of Directors deems prudent. Without OCC approval, however, a national bank may not pay dividends in any calendar year that, in the aggregate, exceed that bank's year-to-date income plus the bank's retained net income for the two preceding years. The payment of dividends by any FDIC-insured institution is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and an FDIC-insured institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, the Bank exceeded its capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2023. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the OCC may prohibit the"}]