[{"bbox": [184, 179, 952, 209], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## 22. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS"}, {"bbox": [184, 228, 1235, 256], "category": "Text", "text": "Brookfield Renewable's trade receivables and other current assets as at December 31 are as follows:"}, {"bbox": [188, 285, 1407, 687], "category": "Table", "text": "<table><caption>(MILLIONS)</caption><thead><tr><th></th><th>2023</th><th>2022</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Trade receivables</td><td>$ 662</td><td>$ 672</td></tr><tr><td>Inventory</td><td>111</td><td>42</td></tr><tr><td>Collateral deposits<sup>(1)</sup></td><td>178</td><td>609</td></tr><tr><td>Prepaids and others</td><td>127</td><td>86</td></tr><tr><td>Sales tax receivable</td><td>94</td><td>73</td></tr><tr><td>Income tax receivables</td><td>74</td><td>74</td></tr><tr><td>Current portion of contract asset</td><td>61</td><td>54</td></tr><tr><td>Short term deposits and advances</td><td>23</td><td>113</td></tr><tr><td>Other short-term receivables</td><td>187</td><td>137</td></tr></tbody><tfoot><tr><td></td><td>$ 1,517</td><td>$ 1,860</td></tr></tfoot></table>"}, {"bbox": [184, 687, 1357, 767], "category": "Text", "text": "(1) Collateral deposits are related to energy derivative contracts that Brookfield Renewable enters into in order to mitigate the exposure to wholesale market electricity prices on the future sale of uncontracted generation, as part of Brookfield Renewable's risk management strategy."}, {"bbox": [184, 781, 1409, 966], "category": "Text", "text": "As at December 31, 2023, 86% (2022: 89%) of trade receivables were current. Brookfield Renewable does not expect issues with collectability of these amounts. Accordingly, as at December 31, 2023 and 2022 an allowance for doubtful accounts for trade receivables was not deemed necessary. Trade receivables are generally on 30-day terms and credit limits are assigned and monitored for all counterparties. In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, management performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivables and the credit worthiness of the counterparties. Management also reviews trade receivable balances on an ongoing basis."}, {"bbox": [184, 982, 616, 1011], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## 23. OTHER LONG-TERM ASSETS"}, {"bbox": [184, 1030, 1037, 1060], "category": "Text", "text": "Brookfield Renewable's other long-term assets as at December 31 are as follows:"}, {"bbox": [188, 1087, 1407, 1394], "category": "Table", "text": "<table><caption>(MILLIONS)</caption><thead><tr><th></th><th>Note</th><th>2023</th><th>2022</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Contract asset</td><td></td><td>$ 314</td><td>$ 341</td></tr><tr><td>Long-term receivables</td><td></td><td>382</td><td>235</td></tr><tr><td>Due from related parties</td><td>28</td><td>135</td><td>128</td></tr><tr><td>Restricted cash</td><td>21</td><td>81</td><td>52</td></tr><tr><td>Intangibles<sup>(1)</sup></td><td></td><td>15</td><td>209</td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>84</td><td>86</td></tr></tbody><tfoot><tr><td></td><td></td><td>$ 1,011</td><td>$ 1,051</td></tr></tfoot></table>"}, {"bbox": [184, 1394, 1050, 1422], "category": "Text", "text": "(1) Relates to certain power generating facilities that operate under service concession arrangements."}, {"bbox": [184, 1437, 1407, 1499], "category": "Text", "text": "At December 31, 2023 and 2022, restricted cash was held primarily to satisfy operations and maintenance reserve requirements, lease payments and credit agreements."}, {"bbox": [184, 1515, 1409, 1792], "category": "Text", "text": "Contract assets are the result of contract amendments made to Brookfield Renewable's long-term power purchase agreements with Brookfield associated with generating assets in Ontario held by Great Lakes Power Limited and Mississagi Power Trust. The net impact of these changes were offset by changes to Brookfield Renewable's long-term energy revenue agreement with Brookfield associated with several entities owned by Brookfield Renewable in the United States, however the changes resulted in a difference in timing of cash flows. As a result, the amendments were accounted for in reflection of their substance, with the recognition of contract asset and liability balances and net financing charges to be recognized over the remainder of the term of the agreements. There are no material provisions for expected credit losses on contract assets. See Note 28 – Related party transactions, for additional details regarding Brookfield Renewable's revenue agreements with Brookfield."}]