[{"bbox": [158, 73, 989, 107], "category": "Section-header", "text": "HAOMA MINING NL AND ITS CONTROLLED ENTITIES"}, {"bbox": [150, 205, 1172, 239], "category": "Section-header", "text": "NOTES TO AND FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS"}, {"bbox": [150, 249, 602, 276], "category": "Text", "text": "FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2016"}, {"bbox": [145, 302, 934, 355], "category": "Section-header", "text": "2 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)"}, {"bbox": [145, 375, 563, 404], "category": "Section-header", "text": "(h) Goods and Services Tax (GST)"}, {"bbox": [215, 406, 1441, 524], "category": "Text", "text": "Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of GST, except where the amount of GST incurred is not recoverable from the Australian Tax Office. In these circumstances the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of an item of the expense. Receivables and payables in the statement of financial position are shown inclusive of GST."}, {"bbox": [215, 540, 1441, 600], "category": "Text", "text": "The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Statement of Financial Position."}, {"bbox": [215, 615, 1441, 705], "category": "Text", "text": "Cash flows are included in the Statement of Cash Flows on a gross basis and the GST component of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities, which is recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority, are classified as operating cash flows."}, {"bbox": [215, 719, 1441, 778], "category": "Text", "text": "Commitments and contingencies are disclosed net of the amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority."}, {"bbox": [145, 794, 454, 823], "category": "Section-header", "text": "(i) Impairment of assets"}, {"bbox": [215, 825, 1441, 1208], "category": "Text", "text": "At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset's recoverable amount. An asset's recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets and the asset's value in use cannot be estimated to be close to its fair value. In such cases the asset is tested for impairment as part of the cash generating unit to which it belongs. When the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset or cash-generating unit is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment losses relating to continuing operations are recognised in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset unless the asset is carried at the revalued amount (in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease)."}, {"bbox": [215, 1226, 1441, 1521], "category": "Text", "text": "An assessment is also made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset's recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the asset's revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life."}, {"bbox": [145, 1538, 352, 1567], "category": "Section-header", "text": "(j) Income Tax"}, {"bbox": [215, 1569, 1441, 1686], "category": "Text", "text": "Haoma Mining NL and its wholly-owned Australian subsidiaries formed an income tax consolidated group on July 1, 2003. Haoma Mining NL is responsible for recognising the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the consolidated tax group. The consolidated tax group has entered a tax sharing agreement whereby each group company contributes to income tax payable in proportion to the net result before tax of the consolidated tax group."}, {"bbox": [215, 1702, 1441, 1788], "category": "Text", "text": "Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to calculate taxation assets and liabilities are those that applied at year end balance date."}, {"bbox": [215, 1806, 1441, 1866], "category": "Text", "text": "At the reporting date, deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes."}, {"bbox": [14, 60, 136, 1993], "category": "Text", "text": "FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY"}]