[{"bbox": [136, 180, 995, 229], "category": "Section-header", "text": "# About Sustainability and Social Impact Reporting"}, {"bbox": [136, 241, 375, 270], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## Transparent reporting"}, {"bbox": [136, 270, 787, 525], "category": "Text", "text": "The scope of our reporting on sustainability and social impact relates to Rogers Communications Inc.'s (RCI) operations in Canada. It summarizes our work in 2023 and the progress we have made in addressing our strategic priorities. On April 3, 2023, following the completion of our acquisition of Shaw Communications Inc. (Shaw and the Shaw Transaction, respectively), Shaw was amalgamated with RCI. The results from the acquired Shaw operations are included herein from the date of acquisition unless otherwise noted."}, {"bbox": [136, 540, 787, 713], "category": "Text", "text": "We report key material topics related to sustainability and social impact on an annual basis. For 2023, we have combined this reporting into our Annual Report, highlighting our commitment to continue embedding sustainability and social impact into how we do business. This helps us to drive our business priorities while making a positive impact in the lives of Canadians."}, {"bbox": [136, 725, 787, 841], "category": "Text", "text": "To guide our reporting, we consider the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the World Economic Forum (WEF), and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol."}, {"bbox": [136, 855, 787, 1055], "category": "Text", "text": "Our 2023 reporting has been prepared based on internal criteria in recognition of the GRI Universal Standards, with reference to SASB reporting standards, and we consider our commitment to improve disclosure against the four pillars of TCFD. Refer to our 2023 Data Supplement at about.rogers.com/our-impact/impact-reports for our Index, Data Table, and Glossary of Terms. Please also refer to our 2023 Climate Action Report for our climate disclosures."}, {"bbox": [136, 1087, 450, 1115], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## External assurance statement"}, {"bbox": [136, 1117, 787, 1231], "category": "Text", "text": "KPMG was engaged to provide a limited assurance conclusion over indicators identified with this symbol ⚙️ as at and for the year ended December 31, 2023. Refer to KPMG's Independent Limited Assurance Report on page 170."}, {"bbox": [136, 1262, 589, 1292], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## Statement on forward-looking information"}, {"bbox": [136, 1293, 787, 1547], "category": "Text", "text": "This report includes “forward-looking information” and “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws (collectively, “forward-looking information”), and assumptions about, among other things, our social, environmental, and economic performance in Canada. This forward-looking information and these assumptions include, but are not limited to, statements about our objectives and strategies to achieve those objectives, and about our beliefs, plans, expectations, anticipations, estimates, or intentions."}, {"bbox": [809, 239, 1091, 268], "category": "Text", "text": "Forward-looking information:"}, {"bbox": [809, 268, 1460, 495], "category": "List-item", "text": "* typically includes words like could, expect, may, anticipate, assume, believe, intend, estimate, plan, project, guidance, outlook, target, and similar expressions; and\n* includes conclusions, forecasts, and projections that are based on our current objectives and strategies and on estimates, expectations, assumptions, and other factors that we believe to have been reasonable at the time they were applied but may prove to be incorrect."}, {"bbox": [809, 509, 1458, 623], "category": "Text", "text": "Our forward-looking information includes forecasts and projections related our various targets, including our target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions to achieve net-zero, and all other statements that are not historical facts."}, {"bbox": [809, 638, 1458, 980], "category": "Text", "text": "Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information. Actual events and results can be substantially different from what is expressed or implied by forward-looking information as a result of risks, uncertainties, and other factors. These factors can also affect our objectives, strategies, and intentions. Many of these factors are beyond our control or our current expectations or knowledge. Should one or more of these risks, uncertainties, or other factors materialize, our objectives, strategies, or intentions change, or any other factors or assumptions underlying the forward-looking information prove incorrect, our actual results and our plans could vary significantly from what we currently foresee."}, {"bbox": [809, 994, 1458, 1166], "category": "Text", "text": "All of the forward-looking information in this report is subject to the disclaimer, and qualified by the assumptions and risk factors referred to, in “About Forward-Looking Information” in our 2023 Annual Management’s Discussion and Analysis, as filed with securities regulators at sedarplus.ca and sec.gov, and also available at investors.rogers.com."}, {"bbox": [809, 1180, 1458, 1353], "category": "Text", "text": "The forward-looking information contained in this report describes our expectations as of March 5, 2024 and accordingly, are subject to change going forward. Except as required by law, Rogers disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking information. All of the forward-looking information in this report is qualified by the cautionary statements herein."}, {"bbox": [809, 1367, 1458, 1482], "category": "Text", "text": "Trademarks in this report are owned by Rogers Communications Inc. or an affiliate. This report also includes trademarks of other parties. The trademarks referred to in this report may be listed without the ™ symbols. ©2024 Rogers Communications"}, {"bbox": [1532, 217, 1559, 594], "category": "Page-header", "text": "SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL IMPACT"}, {"bbox": [1012, 1975, 1471, 2001], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "2023 ANNUAL REPORT ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC."}]