[{"bbox": [76, 81, 176, 96], "category": "Page-header", "text": "Table of Contents"}, {"bbox": [76, 114, 1266, 130], "category": "Section-header", "text": "**We depend on services of our management, and key personnel, contractors and service providers, and the timely availability of such individuals and providers cannot be assured during ramp-up or into the future.**"}, {"bbox": [76, 131, 1376, 261], "category": "Text", "text": "Successful implementation of our business plan and operations is dependent upon our management team and experienced staff, some of whom are approaching retirement age. From time to time, we may need to recruit additional qualified employees, contractors and service providers to supplement existing management and personnel. We continue to hire and train employees for Lost Creek's renewed operation and we will need to hire additional staff as we develop and construct the Shirley Basin Project. Timely availability and training, strong retention rates of staffing and timely retention of contractors cannot be assured in our industry, many aspects of which are highly specialized. This is particularly true in the current labor markets in which we recruit our employees and contractors, including where we compete with higher paying energy jobs, and because of the remote locations for which employees and contractors are needed. As well, the skilled professionals with expertise in geologic, engineering and process aspects of uranium in situ recovery, radiation safety and other facets of our business are currently in high demand, as there are relatively few professionals with both expertise and experience. The sustained downturn of the uranium production industry in recent years makes these challenges even more pronounced. Even with return to higher levels of production operations, we will be dependent on the continued service of a relatively small number of key persons, including key contractors, the loss of any one or several of whom could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We do not hold key man insurance in respect of any of our executive officers."}, {"bbox": [76, 277, 1016, 293], "category": "Section-header", "text": "**The SEC's adoption of S-K 1300 results in changes to our technical reports and will continue to result in increased compliance costs and uncertainty of interpretation.**"}, {"bbox": [76, 295, 1376, 344], "category": "Text", "text": "S-K 1300 requires us to disclose specific information related to our material mining operations, including concerning our reported mineral resources at Lost Creek and Shirley Basin. We conformed our technical reports to comply with both S-K 1300 and NI 43-101. Disclosures under S-K 1300 continue to be subject to largely unknown interpretations. We are unable to predict the nature of any future enforcement, interpretation, or application of S-K 1300 by the SEC. Any additional revisions to, or interpretations of, S-K 1300 could also result in additional time and possibly unforeseen compliance costs."}, {"bbox": [76, 360, 484, 376], "category": "Section-header", "text": "**Our results of exploration and ultimate production are highly uncertain.**"}, {"bbox": [76, 378, 1376, 427], "category": "Text", "text": "The exploration for, and development of, mineral deposits involve significant risks which a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines, and for those which are developed, there may be longer timelines, delays and greater than estimated costs to advance to production. Major expenses may be required to establish mineral resources or reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a site. It is impossible to ensure that our current exploration and development programs will result in profitable commercial operations."}, {"bbox": [76, 443, 1376, 492], "category": "Text", "text": "Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on many factors, including the attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as uranium and gold prices, which are highly cyclical. Government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of uranium and environmental protection also are factors in determining commercial viability of a mineral project. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital."}, {"bbox": [76, 508, 1100, 524], "category": "Section-header", "text": "**Our proprietary data, technology and intellectual property may be compromised or lost, which could result in decreased competitive advantage and/or loss to the value of such assets.**"}, {"bbox": [76, 526, 1376, 575], "category": "Text", "text": "With the ever-increasing reliance on technology throughout our operations, including developments of proprietary technology and intellectual property by the Company and/or its consultants, risks of theft, appropriation or other loss of such technology and assets and/or our proprietary data pose a risk to our competitive advantage and business and financial results. We take what we believe to be reasonable steps to protect these proprietary technologies and intellectual property, including contractually and by efforts to obtain patents or trade rights where possible, but there can be no assurance that all such measures will be sufficient or successful."}, {"bbox": [76, 591, 593, 607], "category": "Section-header", "text": "**Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations could impact our operations.**"}, {"bbox": [76, 609, 1376, 673], "category": "Text", "text": "Although we play an important role in addressing climate change with our production of uranium to fuel carbon-free nuclear power, we, too, may be subject to risks associated with climate change which could harm our results of operations and increase our costs and expenses. The occurrence of severe adverse weather conditions may have a potentially serious impact on our operations. Adverse weather may result in physical damage to our operations, instability of our infrastructure and equipment, or alter the supply of electricity to our Lost Creek Property or Shirley Basin when it is constructed. Impacts of such events may affect worker productivity at our projects. Should any impacts of climate change be material in nature or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations would be adversely affected."}, {"bbox": [719, 707, 733, 720], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "40"}]