[{"bbox": [0, 0, 1394, 1024], "category": "Picture"}, {"bbox": [140, 1083, 576, 1362], "category": "Text", "text": "design not only included elements of Jason Wu's personality, but also retained the Italian style of the FILA brand combining high-end fashion with sports. In 2016, we also hosted Jason Wu's very first fashion show in Beijing with FILA, which showcased the \"Jason Wu X FILA Spring Summer 2017 Collection\" and was very successful in terms of improving awareness of the brand."}, {"bbox": [142, 1393, 576, 1885], "category": "Text", "text": "During the year, FILA collaborated with former Wimbledon champion Marion Bartoli, to launch the LOVE FILA series, lifting sportswear to new standards and creating a new trend in tennis sports. LOVE FILA attracted the attention of a number of international tennis stars before the official launch, with many renowned athletes participating in several international tournaments wore this series. On the other hand, with the aim to target the high-end children's market, FILA also launched FILA KIDS which inherited the elegant and unique style of the FILA brand. The new line attracted significant attention in the high-end market."}, {"bbox": [606, 1083, 1037, 1828], "category": "Text", "text": "FILA is renowned at combining sponsorship resources with different marketing channels in order to strengthen the influence of the brand. In addition to utilizing celebrity endorsements and product placements on multiple promotion channels, FILA also sponsored CCTV's Rio Olympics reporting team, providing support to CCTV journalists between stadiums and arenas during the Rio Olympics Games. The reporting crew dressed in FILA-products showcased the outstanding attitude and groomed appearance in delivering timely, comprehensive and compelling news coverage of the Rio Olympics Games. FILA is also the official sponsor of sportswear uniform for Hong Kong's Olympic squad of China of the Rio Olympics Games and the official sportswear partner of the Hong Kong Table Tennis Association. All of these partnerships have created opportunities for FILA to showcase its tradition and unique style, attracting consumers' attention at major international sporting events."}, {"bbox": [1074, 1085, 1652, 2044], "category": "Picture"}, {"bbox": [143, 1958, 554, 1982], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "ANTA Sports Products Limited Annual Report 2016"}]