[{"bbox": [141, 145, 673, 201], "category": "Page-header", "text": "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements\nFor the year ended 30 September 2016"}, {"bbox": [141, 283, 1053, 321], "category": "Section-header", "text": "5. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)"}, {"bbox": [198, 365, 388, 396], "category": "Section-header", "text": "(b) Associates"}, {"bbox": [256, 442, 1370, 701], "category": "Text", "text": "Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control or joint control over those policies. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible, including potential voting rights held by other entities, are considered when assessing whether the Group has significant influence. In assessing whether a potential voting right contributes to significant influence, the holder's intention and financial ability to exercise or convert that right is not considered."}, {"bbox": [256, 746, 1372, 1080], "category": "Text", "text": "Investment in an associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements by the equity method and is initially recognised at cost. Identifiable assets and liabilities of the associate in an acquisition are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the investment over the Group's share of the net fair value of the associate's identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. The goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is tested for impairment together with the investment at the end of each reporting period when there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired. Any excess of the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognised in consolidated profit or loss."}, {"bbox": [256, 1125, 1372, 1421], "category": "Text", "text": "The Group's share of an associate's post-acquisition profits or losses and other comprehensive income is recognised in consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. When the Group's share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group's net investment in the associate), the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. If the associate subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised."}, {"bbox": [256, 1466, 1372, 1649], "category": "Text", "text": "Unrealised profits on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interests in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group."}, {"bbox": [141, 1958, 623, 1989], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "Infinity Development Holdings Company Limited"}, {"bbox": [667, 1962, 873, 1989], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "Annual Report 2016"}]