[{"bbox": [136, 91, 418, 126], "category": "Page-header", "text": "DIRECTORS' REPORT"}, {"bbox": [13, 55, 130, 1876], "category": "Page-header", "text": "FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY"}, {"bbox": [136, 285, 554, 315], "category": "Section-header", "text": "a) Fixed Remuneration – Base Salary"}, {"bbox": [204, 346, 1319, 463], "category": "Text", "text": "The fixed remuneration for each senior executive is influenced by the nature and responsibilities of each role and knowledge, skills and experience required for each position. Fixed remuneration provides a base level of remuneration which is market competitive and comprises a base salary inclusive of statutory superannuation. It is structured as a total employment cost package."}, {"bbox": [204, 494, 1319, 670], "category": "Text", "text": "Key management personnel are offered a competitive base salary that comprises the fixed component of pay and rewards. External remuneration consultants may provide analysis and advice to ensure base pay is set to reflect the market for a comparable role. No external advice was taken this year. Base salary for key management personnel is reviewed annually to ensure the executives' pay is competitive with the market. The pay of key management personnel is also reviewed on promotion. There is no guaranteed pay increase included in any key management personnel's contract."}, {"bbox": [136, 698, 741, 727], "category": "Section-header", "text": "b) Variable Remuneration – Short Term Incentives (STI)"}, {"bbox": [204, 758, 1319, 815], "category": "Text", "text": "Discretionary cash bonuses may be paid to senior executives annually, subject to the requisite Board and shareholder approvals where applicable."}, {"bbox": [204, 846, 1319, 934], "category": "Text", "text": "No bonus payments were made during the 2015 financial year. A $200,000 performance based bonus was paid to David Wall in the 2016 financial year. In determining the extent of his performance based bonus, the Company took into consideration the key performance indicators of Mr Wall and the Company."}, {"bbox": [136, 965, 734, 993], "category": "Section-header", "text": "c) Variable Remuneration – Long Term Incentives (LTI)"}, {"bbox": [204, 1024, 1319, 1230], "category": "Text", "text": "The Company adopted an Incentive Option Scheme during the year ended 31 December 2015. The Scheme allows eligible participants to be granted Options to acquire Shares in the Company. The Board may grant Options to any Director, full or part time employee, or casual employee or contractor who falls within the definition of an Eligible Participant as defined in ASIC Class Order 14/1000. Each Option granted under the Scheme will be granted for nil or nominal consideration. Each Option is exercisable into one Share in the Company and the exercise price and expiry date for Options granted under the Scheme will be determined by the Board prior to the grant of the Options."}, {"bbox": [204, 1261, 1319, 1319], "category": "Text", "text": "The Options granted may be subject to conditions on exercise as may be fixed by the Directors prior to grant of the Options. The Options will not be quoted on ASX."}, {"bbox": [136, 1954, 400, 1974], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "88 Energy Limited - Annual Report 2016"}, {"bbox": [1220, 1954, 1299, 1974], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "19 | Page"}]