[{"bbox": [312, 359, 1570, 434], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## DIRECTORS' AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S INTERESTS AND SHORT POSITIONS IN SHARES, UNDERLYING SHARES AND DEBENTURES (Continued)"}, {"bbox": [312, 455, 1570, 517], "category": "Text", "text": "### LONG POSITION IN THE SHARES AND UNDERLYING SHARES OF THE COMPANY AND ITS ASSOCIATED CORPORATIONS (Continued)"}, {"bbox": [312, 524, 375, 550], "category": "Text", "text": "Notes:"}, {"bbox": [312, 580, 1289, 607], "category": "List-item", "text": "(1) These shares are registered in the name of Ms. Yu Lai Chu, Eileen, the wife of Mr. Tam Chie Sang."}, {"bbox": [312, 635, 1570, 762], "category": "List-item", "text": "(2) 5,960,000 shares are registered in the name of Ms. Yu Lai Chu, Eileen, the wife of Mr. Tam Chie Sang and 155,333,760 shares are registered in the name of Zinna Group Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong. All voting rights over Zinna Group Limited are held by Royalion Worldwide Limited, a British Virgin Islands company which is 75% owned by Ms. Yu Lai Chu, Eileen and 25% owned by her husband, Mr. Tam Chie Sang; both are executive directors of the Company."}, {"bbox": [312, 791, 1333, 818], "category": "List-item", "text": "(3) These shares are registered in the name of Mr. Tam Chie Sang, the husband of Ms. Yu Lai Chu, Eileen."}, {"bbox": [312, 847, 1333, 874], "category": "List-item", "text": "(4) These shares are registered in the name of Mr. Yu Kam Shui, Erastus, the husband of Ms. Lai Yin Ping."}, {"bbox": [312, 902, 891, 929], "category": "List-item", "text": "(5) Ms. Wong Man Lai, Stevie is the CEO of the Company."}, {"bbox": [312, 958, 1570, 1017], "category": "List-item", "text": "(6) These represent the shares to be issued and alloted by the Company upon the exercise of the share options granted under the share option scheme (as defined in the section headed \"Share Options\" of this report)."}, {"bbox": [312, 1046, 1570, 1218], "category": "Text", "text": "As at 30th September, 2016, save as disclosed above, none of the directors, chief executive or any of their close associates had any interests and short positions, whether beneficial or non-beneficial, in the shares, underlying shares or debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under Section 352 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code."}, {"bbox": [312, 1292, 571, 1327], "category": "Section-header", "text": "## SHARE OPTIONS"}, {"bbox": [312, 1350, 1570, 1452], "category": "Text", "text": "Particulars of the Company's share option scheme are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements. On 24th February, 2012, the Company adopted a new share option scheme (the \"Share Option Scheme\"), which replaced the old share option scheme that was expired on 22nd January, 2012."}, {"bbox": [312, 1480, 1570, 1653], "category": "Text", "text": "Other than as disclosed above, at no time during the year was the Company or any of its subsidiaries a party to any arrangements to enable the directors or the chief executive of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debt securities (including debentures) of, the Company or any other body corporate and none of the directors, the chief executive, their spouses or children under the age of 18 had any right to subscribe for securities of the Company, or had exercised any such right during the year ended 30th September, 2016."}, {"bbox": [1005, 1965, 1450, 1989], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "Water **Oasis** Group Limited ANNUAL REPORT 2016"}, {"bbox": [1523, 1954, 1565, 1989], "category": "Page-footer", "text": "37"}]