with $n$ trials and success probability $p$ . Recall that $\mathbb { P } = \mathbb { P } _ { n } , \mathbb { Q } = \mathbb { Q } _ { n }$ are two probability measures on a pair of random graphs on $[ n ] = \{ 1 , \dots , n \}$ . Denote ${ \mathfrak { S } } _ { n }$ the set of permutations in $[ n ]$ and $\mu = \mu _ { n }$ the uniform distribution on ${ \mathfrak { S } } _ { n }$ . In addition, denote by $\nu = \nu _ { n }$ the uniform distribution on $\{ - 1 , + 1 \} ^ { n }$ . We will use the following notation conventions for graphs.  

• Labeled graphs. Denote by $\textstyle { \mathcal { K } } _ { n }$ the complete graph with vertex set $[ n ]$ and edge set $\mathrm { U } _ { n }$ . For any graph $H$ , let $V ( H )$ denote the vertex set of $H$ and let $E ( H )$ denote the edge set of $H$ . We say $H$ is a subgraph of $G$ , denoted by $H \subset G$ , if $V ( H ) \subset V ( G )$ and $E ( H ) \subset E ( G )$ . We say $\varphi : V ( H ) \to V ( S )$ is an injection, if for all $( i , j ) \in E ( H )$ we have $( \varphi ( i ) , \varphi ( j ) ) \in E ( S )$ . For $H , S \subset K _ { n }$ , denote by $H \cap S$ the graph with vertex set given by $V ( H ) \cap V ( S )$ and edge set given by $E ( H ) \cap E ( S )$ , and denote by $S \cup H$ the graph with vertex set given by $V ( H ) \cup V ( S )$ and edge set given by $E ( H ) \cup E ( S )$ . For any graph $H$ , denote the excess of $H$ by $\tau ( H ) = | E ( H ) | - | V ( H ) |$ . Given $u \in V ( H )$ , define ${ \mathsf { N e i } } _ { H } ( u )$ to be the set of neighbors of $u$ in $H$ . For two vertices $u , v \in V ( H )$ , we define $\mathsf { D i s t } _ { H } ( u , v )$ to be their graph distance. Denote the diameter of a connected graph $H$ by $\begin{array} { r } { \mathsf { D i a m } ( H ) = \operatorname* { m a x } _ { u , v \in V ( H ) } \mathsf { D i s t } _ { H } ( u , v ) } \end{array}$ .  

• Graph isomorphisms and unlabeled graphs. Two graphs $H$ and $H ^ { \prime }$ are isomorphic, denoted by $H \cong H ^ { \prime }$ , if there exists a bijection $\pi : V ( H ) \to V ( H ^ { \prime } )$ such that $( \pi ( u ) , \pi ( v ) ) \in E ( H ^ { \prime } )$ if and only if $( u , v ) \in E ( H )$ . Denote by $\mathcal { H }$ the isomorphism class of graphs; it is customary to refer to these isomorphic classes as unlabeled graphs. Let $\operatorname { A u t } ( H )$ be the number of automorphisms of $H$ (graph isomorphisms to itself). For any graph $H$ , define $\mathsf { F i x } ( H ) = \{ u \in V ( H ) : \varphi ( u ) =$ $u , \forall \varphi \in \operatorname { A u t } ( H ) \}$ .   
• Induced subgraphs. For a graph $H = ( V , E )$ and a subset $A \subset V$ , define $H _ { A } = ( A , E _ { A } )$ to be the induced subgraph of $H$ in $A$ , where $E _ { A } = \{ ( u , v ) \in E : u , v \in A \}$ . Also, define $H _ { \backslash A } = ( V , E _ { \backslash A } )$ to be the subgraph of $H$ obtained by deleting all edges with both endpoints in $A$ . Note that $E _ { A } \cup E _ { \backslash A } = E$ .   
• Isolated vertices. For $u \in V ( H )$ , we say $u$ is an isolated vertex of $H$ if there is no edge in $E ( H )$ incident to $u$ . Denote $\mathcal { T } ( H )$ as the set of isolated vertices of $H$ .   
• Paths, self-avoiding paths and non-backtracking paths. We say a subgraph $H \subset K _ { n }$ is a path with endpoints $u , v$ (possibly with $u = v$ ), if there exist $w _ { 1 } , \ldots , w _ { m } \in [ n ] \neq u , v$ such that $V ( H ) = \left\{ u , v , w _ { 1 } , \dots , w _ { m } \right\}$ and $E ( H ) = \{ ( u , w _ { 1 } ) , ( w _ { 1 } , w _ { 2 } ) \dots , ( w _ { m } , v ) \}$ (we allow the occurrence of multiple vertices or edges). We say $H$ is a self-avoiding path if $w _ { 0 } , w _ { 1 } , \dots , w _ { m } , w _ { m + 1 }$ are distinct (where we denote $w _ { 0 } = u$ and $w _ { m + 1 } = v$ ), and we say $H$ is a non-backtracking path if $w _ { i + 1 } \neq w _ { i - 1 }$ for $1 \leq i \leq m$ . Denote $\operatorname { E n d P } ( P )$ as the set of endpoints of a path $P$ .   
• Cycles and independent cycles. We say a subgraph $H$ is an $m$ -cycle if $V ( H ) = \{ v _ { 1 } , \ldots , v _ { m } \}$ and $E ( H ) = \{ ( v _ { 1 } , v _ { 2 } ) , \dots , ( v _ { m - 1 } , v _ { m } ) , ( v _ { m } , v _ { 1 } ) \}$ . For a subgraph $K \subset H$ , we say $K$ is an independent $m$ -cycle of $H$ , if $K$ is an $m$ -cycle and no edge in $E ( H ) \setminus E ( K )$ is incident to $V ( K )$ . Denote $\mathcal { C } _ { m } ( H )$ as the set of independent $m$ -cycles of $H$ . For $H \subset S$ , we define ${ \mathfrak { C } } _ { m } ( S , H )$ to be the set of independent $m$ -cycles in $S$ whose vertex set is disjoint from $V ( H )$ .   
• Leaves. A vertex $u \in V ( H )$ is called a leaf of $H$ , if the degree of $u$ in $H$ is $1$ ; denote $\mathcal { L } ( H )$ as the set of leaves of $H$ .   
• Trees and rooted trees. We say a graph $T = ( V ( T ) , E ( T ) )$ is a tree, if $T$ is connected and has no cycles. We say a pair $( T , \Re ( T ) )$ is a rooted tree with root $\Re ( T )$ , if $T$ is a tree and $\Re ( T ) \in V ( T )$ . For a rooted tree $T$ and $u \in V ( T )$ , we define $\mathsf { D e p } _ { T } ( u ) = \mathsf { D i s t } _ { T } ( \mathfrak { R } ( T ) , u )$ to be  