# 3. Skew shaped positroid varieties  

3.1. Positroid varieties. First, we recall equivalent ways of describing positroid varieties in the Grassmannian: Grassmann necklaces and bounded affine permutations.  

Definition 3.1.1. A $( k , n )$ -source Grassmann necklace ${ \mathcal { I } } = ( I _ { 1 } , I _ { 2 } , \ldots , I _ { n } )$ is an $n$ -tuple of $k$ -element subsets $I _ { i } \subseteq [ n ]$ where  

• if $i \in I _ { i }$ then there exists $j \in [ n ]$ such that $I _ { i - 1 } = ( I _ { i } \setminus \{ i \} ) \cup \{ j \}$ , and • if $i \not \in I _ { i }$ then $I _ { i } = I _ { i - 1 }$ .  

We denote by ${ \mathsf { G N } } ( k , n )$ the set of $( k , n )$ -Grassmann necklaces.  

Remark 3.1.2. Note that if $i \in I _ { i }$ then it may be that $I _ { i - 1 } = I _ { i } = ( I _ { i } \setminus \{ i \} ) \cup \{ i \}$ . Finally, note that $I _ { i - 1 } \setminus I _ { i }$ is either empty or a singleton.  

Remark 3.1.3. Grassmann necklaces were first defined in [24]. Our definition is slightly different, as we use $I _ { i - 1 }$ instead of $I _ { i + 1 }$ , this difference is indicated by the word source in the name.  

Definition 3.1.4 ([19]). A bijection $f : \mathbb { Z } \to \mathbb { Z }$ is called a $( k , n )$ -bounded affine permutation if it satisfies the following conditions:  

(1) $f ( i + n ) = f ( i ) + n$ for every $i \in \mathbb Z$ . (2) For every $i \in \mathbb { Z }$ , $i \leq f ( i ) \leq f ( i ) + n$ . (3) We have:  

$$
\sum _ { i = 1 } ^ { n } ( f ( i ) - i ) = n k .
$$  

Note that, by (1), $f$ is uniquely determined by the values $f ( 1 ) , \ldots , f ( n )$ , which are pairwise distinct modulo $n$ . We often simply denote $f = [ f ( 1 ) , \dots , f ( n ) ]$ . Note also that, upon the presence of (1) and (2), (3) is equivalent to $| \{ i \in [ n ] : f ( i ) > n \} | = k$ . We denote the set of $( k , n )$ -bounded affine permutations by ${ \mathsf { B A } } ( k , n )$ . We say that $f$ is a bounded $n$ -affine permutation if there exists $k$ such that $f$ is a $( k , n )$ -bounded affine permutation.  

Lemma 3.1.5. The sets $\mathsf { G N } ( k , n )$ and ${ \mathsf { B A } } ( k , n )$ are in natural bijection.  

In the proof, we will need the following definition.  

Definition 3.1.6. We define the cyclic order $\leq _ { i }$ on the set $[ n ]$ : $i < _ { i } i + 1 < _ { i } i + 2 < _ { i } \dots < _ { i }$ $n < _ { i } 1 < _ { i } \ldots < _ { i } i - 1$ .  

Proof of Lemma 3.1.5. This is essentially a combination of [19, Corollary 3.13] and [23, Remark 2.4]. For the reader’s convenience and to fix notation, we provide the bijection $\varphi :$ ${ \mathsf { G N } } ( k , n ) \to { \mathsf { B A } } ( k , n )$ . Let us first describe $f _ { \mathcal { T } } : = \varphi ( \mathcal { T } )$ (mod $n$ ) through its inverse $\bar { f } _ { \mathcal { T } } ^ { - 1 }$ : we have $\bar { f } _ { \mathcal { T } } ^ { - 1 } ( i ) = i$ if $I _ { i - 1 } = I _ { i }$ , and $\bar { f } _ { \mathcal { Z } } ^ { - 1 } ( i ) = j$ if $I _ { i - 1 } \backslash I _ { i } = \{ j \}$ . To lift this to a bounded affine permutation, we set $f _ { \mathbb { Z } } ( i ) = i + n$ if $I _ { i - 1 } = I _ { i }$ and $i \in I _ { i }$ , and $f _ { \mathcal { T } } ( i ) = i$ if $\textit { i } \not \in I _ { i }$ . On the other hand, if $f : \mathbb { Z } \to \mathbb { Z }$ is a $k$ -bounded affine permutation, let $I = \{ i \in [ n ] \mid f ( i ) = i + n \}$ , and $f = f$ (mod $n$ ). Then $I _ { i }$ consists of $I$ together with the elements $\{ a \in [ n ] \mid a < _ { i } f ( a ) \}$ . The collection ${ \mathcal { I } } _ { f } = ( I _ { 1 } , \ldots , I _ { n } )$ is a Grassmann necklace, and $f \mapsto \mathcal T _ { f }$ , $\mathcal T \mapsto f _ { \mathcal T }$ are inverse bijections. □  

Now, we associate a Grassmann necklace and a bounded affine permutation to an element $V$ in the Grassmannian $\operatorname { G r } ( k , n )$ following [19, 24]. We represent $V$ by a $k \times n$ matrix of rank $k$ , up to row operations, and denote by $v _ { 1 } , \ldots , v _ { n } \in \mathbb { C } ^ { k }$ the columns of $V$ . Furthermore, we define $v _ { i }$ for all $i \in \mathbb Z$ by setting $v _ { i + n } : = ( - 1 ) ^ { k - 1 } v _ { i }$ . Given an (ordered) $k$ -element subset  