# Periodic Inscription of Isosceles Trapezoids  

Ali Naseri Sadr  

# Abstract  

We prove that a pair of continuous disjoint periodic curves in $\mathbb { C }$ inscribes an isosceles trapezoid with any similarity type. The case of smooth curves can be identified with a Lagrangian intersection problem for a pair of Lagrangian cylinders in $\mathbb { R } \times S ^ { 1 } \times \mathbb { C }$ , and the continuous case follows from the smooth one by a standard convergence argument.  

# 1 Introduction  

Let $\gamma _ { 1 } , \gamma _ { 2 } \colon  { \mathbb { R } } \to  { \mathbb { C } }$ be two continuous embeddings of the real line into $\mathbb { C }$ that satisfy the periodicity condition  

$$
\gamma _ { i } ( t + 1 ) = \gamma _ { i } ( t ) + \sqrt { - 1 }
$$  

for every $t$ and $i = 1 , 2$ . Furthermore, assume the images of $\gamma _ { 1 }$ and $\gamma _ { 2 }$ are disjoint. Tao conjectured in [10] that there exist four points in $\gamma _ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ) \cup \gamma _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ which are vertices of a square; this is a variation of the Toeplitz square peg problem for periodic curves, and Hugelmeyer proved it in [5].  

For any given isosceles trapezoid $Q$ , we show there are four points in $\gamma _ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } ) \cup \gamma _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ that are vertices of a quadrilateral similar to $Q$ . The approach of [5] does not directly generalize even to the case of rectangles. By contrast, in this article, we use a different approach to prove not only that every pair of periodic curves inscribes every similarity type of rectangles, but also every similarity type of isosceles trapezoids.  

Definition 1.1. Assume $Q$ is an isosceles trapezoid. We say that the pair $( \gamma _ { 1 } , \gamma _ { 2 } )$ admits a balanced inscription of $Q$ if there exist $p _ { 1 } , p _ { 2 } \in \gamma _ { 1 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ and $p _ { 3 } , p _ { 4 } \in \gamma _ { 2 } ( \mathbb { R } )$ such that the quadrilateral formed by $p _ { 1 } , p _ { 2 } , p _ { 3 } , p _ { 4 }$ is similar to $Q$ , the line segments $\overline { { p _ { 1 } p _ { 2 } } }$ and $\overline { { p _ { 3 } p _ { 4 } } }$ are parallel, and $| \overline { { p _ { 1 } p _ { 2 } } } | \leq | \overline { { p _ { 3 } p _ { 4 } } } |$ .  

Note that our definition depends on the order of the pair $( \gamma _ { 1 } , \gamma _ { 2 } )$ unless $Q$ is a rectangle.  

Theorem 1.2. Suppose $\gamma _ { 1 }$ and $\gamma _ { 2 }$ are two continuous disjoint periodic embeddings of the real line into the plane, and suppose $Q$ is an isosceles trapezoid. Then $( \gamma _ { 1 } , \ \gamma _ { 2 } )$ admits a balanced inscription of $Q$ . Furthermore, there is a generic subset of smooth disjoint periodic pairs such that each pair in this set admits at least two balanced inscriptions of $Q$ that are not related under translation by $\sqrt { - 1 }$ .  

Corollary 1.3. Let $\theta \in ( 0 , \frac { \pi } { 2 } ]$ ; then every pair of continuous disjoint periodic curves in the plane inscribes a rectangle with angle $\theta$ between its two diagonals.  

We conjecture that Theorem 1.2 is optimal, in the following sense.  

Conjecture 1.4. Let $Q$ be a quadrilateral that admits an inscription in any pair of disjoint periodic curves in $\mathbb { C }$ . Then $Q$ is an isosceles trapezoid.  