for the Dirichlet form associated to sticky Brownian motion. Denoting $\begin{array} { r } { a _ { 0 } = \frac { 1 } { 2 + \omega L } } \end{array}$ and $b _ { 0 } = \omega a _ { 0 }$ , for all $s > 0$ we have  

$$
\begin{array} { l } { \displaystyle \int f ^ { 2 } \mathrm { d } \mu = a _ { 0 } ( f ( 0 ) ^ { 2 } + f ( L ) ^ { 2 } ) + b _ { 0 } \int _ { 0 } ^ { L } f ^ { 2 } \mathrm { d } x , } \\ { \displaystyle \qquad \le a _ { 0 } ( f ( 0 ) ^ { 2 } + f ( L ) ^ { 2 } ) + b _ { 0 } s \int _ { 0 } ^ { L } ( f ^ { \prime } ) ^ { 2 } \mathrm { d } x + b _ { 0 } \beta ( s ) \left( \int _ { 0 } ^ { L } | f | \mathrm { d } x \right) ^ { 2 } , } \\ { \displaystyle \qquad \le b _ { 0 } s \int _ { 0 } ^ { L } ( f ^ { \prime } ) ^ { 2 } \mathrm { d } x + b _ { 0 } \operatorname* { m a x } ( b _ { 0 } ^ { - 2 } , a _ { 0 } ^ { - 1 } ) \beta ( s ) \left( \int | f | \mathrm { d } \mu \right) ^ { 2 } . } \end{array}
$$  

Therefore the sticky Brownian satisfies a super Poincaré inequality. Then by [Wan00, Th. 5.1], it has an empty essential spectrum. Now, by [BGL14, Th. A.6.4], the resolvent is compact and thus the generator has discrete spectrum. □  

Corollary 19. Choosing $T = m ^ { - 1 / 2 }$ , the transition semigroup of the RTP process is exponentially contractive in $T$ -average with rate  

$$
\nu = \Omega \left( \frac { \omega } { 1 + ( \omega L ) ^ { 2 } } \right) .
$$  

Note that the relaxation time corresponding to this decay rate is of the same order as the mixing time obtained in [GHM24]. It reveals the existence of two regimes controlled by the parameter $\omega L$ . In the ballistic regime $\omega L \ll 1$ , velocity flips are rare, leading to a fast exploration of the position space $\boldsymbol { S }$ and a comparatively slow exploration of the velocity space $\nu$ . This results in the scaling $\nu \ \propto \ \omega$ . On the contrary, in the diffusive regime $\omega L \gg 1$ , the high frequency of velocity flips makes the exploration of $\nu$ faster than the exploration of $\boldsymbol { S }$ . This leads to the scaling $\nu \propto \omega ^ { - 1 } L ^ { - 2 }$ .  

Proof. We begin by verifying Assumption (A). Recall that $\mathrm { D o m } ( \mathcal { L } _ { C ^ { 0 } } )$ is a core of $\mathcal { L }$ by Theorem 7. For all $f \in \operatorname { D o m } ( \mathcal { L } _ { C ^ { 0 } } )$ we have $\hat { \mathcal { L } } _ { v } ( f \circ \pi ) = 0$ hence $\hat { \mathcal { L } } _ { \mathrm { t r } }$ is a lift of $\mathcal { L }$ by Remark 8. Furthermore, for $f \in \operatorname { D o m } ( \mathcal { L } _ { C ^ { 0 } } )$ one has  

$$
\hat { \mathcal { L } } _ { \mathrm { t r } } ^ { * } ( f \circ \pi ) ( x , v ) = - v 1 _ { \{ 0 < x < L \} } f ^ { \prime } ( x ) = - \hat { \mathcal { L } } _ { \mathrm { t r } } ( f \circ \pi ) ( x , v ) .
$$  

A straightforward computation yields  

$$
\int _ { \mathcal { V } } \hat { \mathcal { L } } _ { v } f ( x , v ) \mathrm { d } \kappa _ { x } ( v ) = 0 { \mathrm { ~ f o r ~ a l l ~ } } x \in S { \mathrm { ~ a n d ~ } } f \in \operatorname { D o m } ( \hat { \mathcal { L } } )
$$  

Finally, we prove $\begin{array} { r } { \Vert f - \Pi _ { v } f \Vert _ { L ^ { 2 } ( \hat { \mu } ) } ^ { 2 } \leq \frac { 1 } { m _ { v } } \mathcal { E } _ { v } ( f ) } \end{array}$ with $m _ { v } = 2$ . Define the matrices  

$$
S = \left( { \begin{array} { c c c } { 1 / 4 } & { 0 } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 1 / 2 } & { 0 } \\ { 0 } & { 0 } & { 1 / 4 } \end{array} } \right) , \qquad Q = \left( { \begin{array} { c c c } { - 2 } & { 2 } & { 0 } \\ { 1 } & { - 2 } & { 1 } \\ { 0 } & { 2 } & { - 2 } \end{array} } \right) ,
$$  

as well as the scalar product $\langle x , y \rangle _ { S } = x ^ { \top } S y$ and let $\Pi$ be the orthogonal projection on the kernel of $\mathcal { Q }$ with respect to $\langle \cdot , \cdot \rangle _ { S }$ . The matrix $\mathcal { Q }$ is symmetric w.r.t. the scalar  