defined by the formal sum  

$$
\alpha \star _ { \tau } \beta = \alpha \cup \beta + \sum _ { \stackrel { d \in \mathsf { E f f } _ { \neq 0 } , } { 0 \leq \ell \leq N - 1 } } \langle \alpha , \beta , \phi ^ { \ell } \rangle _ { 0 , 3 , d } \phi _ { \ell } e ^ { \langle \tau , d \rangle }
$$  

where $\mathsf { \overline { { f } } f } \subseteq H _ { 2 } ( X , \mathbb { Z } )$ is the set of effective curve classes.  

The quantum product reduces to the classical cup product when $\langle \tau , d \rangle  - \infty$ for non-zero effective class $d \in \mathsf { E f f } _ { \neq 0 }$ . When $X$ is Fano, the degree axiom of Gromov-Witten invariants [12] implies that $\langle \alpha , \beta , \gamma \rangle _ { 0 , 3 , d } = 0$ when $\deg \alpha + \deg \beta +$ $\deg \gamma \neq \langle c _ { 1 } , d \rangle$ . Therefore, the sum on the right-hand side of $( \diamond )$ is finite.  

All the genus-0 Gromov-Witten invariants can be encoded within a connection, known as the Dubrovin conenction.  

Definition 2.3 (Quantum Differential Equations [2, Chapter 10]). Let $X$ be a Fano manifold. Let $B$ be the trivial vector bundle with fibre $H ^ { * } ( X )$ over $H ^ { 2 } ( X ) \times$ $\mathbb { C } ^ { \times }$ . Set the coordinate $\begin{array} { r } { ( \tau , z ) = ( \sum _ { j = 1 } ^ { b ^ { 2 } ( X ) } t _ { j } \phi _ { j } , z ) \in H ^ { 2 } ( X ) \times \mathbb { C } ^ { \times } } \end{array}$ . The Dubrovin connection on can be defined by:  

$$
\begin{array} { l } { { \nabla _ { \partial _ { t _ { j } } } \varphi = \displaystyle \frac { 1 } { z } \phi _ { j } \star _ { \tau } \varphi , } } \\ { { \nabla _ { z \partial _ { z } } \varphi = - \displaystyle \frac { 1 } { z } c _ { 1 } ( X ) \star _ { \tau } \varphi + \mu ( \varphi ) , } } \end{array}
$$  

where $\mu : H ^ { * } ( X ) \to H ^ { * } ( X )$ ; the Hodge grading operator, is a linear map defined by  

$$
\mu ( \phi _ { \ell } ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( \deg \phi _ { \ell } - \dim X ) \phi _ { \ell } ,
$$  

and $\varphi \in H ^ { \ast } ( X )$ is regarded as a constant section of the trivial bundle.  

The Dubrovin connection is a flat connection. Its fundamental solution along the $\tau$ -direction, i.e., sections satisfying $\nabla _ { \partial _ { t _ { j } } } \big ( L ( \tau , z ) \alpha \big ) = 0$ for all $j = 1 , \ldots , b ^ { 2 } ( X )$ , can be given by  

$$
L ( \tau , z ) \alpha : = e ^ { - \tau / z } \alpha - \sum _ { \stackrel { d \in \in \mathsf { E f f } _ { \neq 0 } } { 0 \leq \ell \leq \dim H ^ { * } ( X ) - 1 } } \left. \phi ^ { \ell } , \frac { e ^ { - \tau / z } \alpha } { z + \psi } \right. _ { \stackrel { \textstyle \mathsf { \displaystyle } } { 0 , 2 , d } } e ^ { \langle \tau , d \rangle } \phi _ { \ell } ,
$$  

where the second argument of the coefficients is expanded as  

$$
{ \frac { 1 } { z + \psi } } = \sum _ { k = 0 } ^ { \infty } ( - 1 ) ^ { k } z ^ { - ( k + 1 ) } \psi ^ { k } .
$$  

By the linearilty of the Gromov-Witten invariants, the coefficients are a sum of the Gromov-Witten invariants with gravitational descendants.  