quantized spectrum:  

$$
\begin{array} { c } { { \displaystyle \hat { S } _ { 0 } ( { \bf k } ) = \tau ^ { z } \qquad \hat { Q } _ { 0 } = \sum _ { \bf k } d _ { \bf k } ^ { \dagger } \hat { S } _ { 0 } ( { \bf k } ) d _ { \bf k } } } \\ { { \displaystyle \hat { S } _ { 1 } ( { \bf k } ) = \cos k _ { z } \tau ^ { z } + \sin k _ { z } \tau ^ { x } \qquad \hat { Q } _ { 1 } = \sum _ { \bf k } d _ { \bf k } ^ { \dagger } \hat { S } _ { 1 } ( { \bf k } ) d _ { \bf k } . } } \end{array}
$$  

The first is the usual $U ( 1 )$ symmetry, while the second is composed of Kitaev Majorana chains [16] along $z$ -axis wires. These generators do not commute, instead they generate an infinite-dimensional Lie algebra known as the Onsager algebra, introduced in [17]. This algebra has recently appeared in the study of the 1+1D chiral anomaly on the lattice [18, 19], and offers another route to defining exact symmetries on the lattice giving anomalous symmetries in the IR.  

We can actually write a Hamiltonian that has this symmetry and two Weyl nodes, which in the BdG formalism above (using the $d _ { \mathbf { k } } ^ { \dagger }$ basis) is  

$$
\begin{array} { r l } { h _ { \mathrm { d o u b l e ~ W e y l } } ^ { \mathrm { B d G } } ( \mathbf { k } ) = \mathbb { 1 } _ { \tau } \otimes \displaystyle \frac { 1 } { 2 } \bigg [ \sin k _ { x } \sigma ^ { x } + \sin k _ { y } \sigma ^ { z } } & { } \\ { + \left[ \cos k _ { z } - \cos K + m ( \mathbf { k } ) \right] \sigma ^ { y } \bigg ] } & { , } \end{array}
$$  

where the identity in the $\tau$ basis ensures it has both $U ( 1 )$ symmetries, $K$ is a parameter, and $m ( \mathbf { k } )$ is the same as in (3). This model is a magnetic Weyl semimetal model that has the two Weyl nodes at $\mathbf { k } = \pm \mathbf { K }$ where $\mathbf { K } = ( 0 , 0 , K )$ .  

Let’s linearize around the Weyl nodes. We get  

$$
h _ { l } ^ { \mathrm { B d G } } = \mathbb { 1 } _ { \tau } \otimes \frac { 1 } { 2 } ( k _ { x } \sigma ^ { x } + k _ { y } \sigma ^ { z } - \sin K \ k _ { z } \sigma ^ { y } ) .
$$  

This shows that for $K \neq 0 , \pi$ , the two Weyl nodes have an opposite handedness. To figure out the effect of ${ \hat { S } } _ { 1 } ( \mathbf { k } )$ at low energy, we can also linearize it, and obtain  

$$
\hat { S } _ { 1 , K } ( { \bf k } ) = \cos K \ \tau ^ { z } + \sin K \ \tau ^ { x } .
$$  

The important feature for $K \neq 0 , \pi$ is that the second term is non-zero.  

Thus, together with $\hat { S } _ { 0 } = \tau ^ { z }$ , these generate an $s u ( 2 )$ algebra acting on the low energy theory. Note that $\tau ^ { x }$ acts by exchanging particles at $\mathbf { K }$ with holes at $- \mathbf { K }$ . Thus, it is convenient to apply a charge conjugation the right-handed Weyl fermion, to give a low energy theory in terms of two left-handed Weyl fermions, now with opposite charge w.r.t. $\tau ^ { z }$ rotations. $\tau ^ { x }$ rotations meanwhile act by a flavor rotation exchanging the two Weyl fermions. Thus, our symmetry generators $\hat { Q } _ { 0 }$ , $\hat { Q } _ { 1 }$ correspond to two $s u ( 2 )$ generators in the flavor symmetry of the low energy, at an angle of $K$ . For $K \neq 0 , \pi$ , they thus generate the whole chiral symmetry.  

We can demonstrate that this symmetry protects the gapless Weyl points. To do so, we must break translation symmetry, since otherwise $z$ -axis translations also act as a discrete axial symmetry and help to stabilize the Weyl nodes [12, 13]. To analyze translationsymmetry breaking, we consider an extended basis ${ e _ { \bf k } } ~ \equiv ~ ( c _ { { \bf k } - { \bf K } } , c _ { - { \bf k } + { \bf K } } ^ { \dagger } , c _ { { \bf k } + { \bf K } } , c _ { - { \bf k } - { \bf K } } ^ { \dagger } ) ^ { T }$ (we suppress the spin component). Hamiltonians in this basis may couple states at $\mathbf { k }$ with ${ \bf k } + 2 { \bf K }$ but are automatically $\hat { Q } _ { 0 }$ preserving. In this basis the symmetry action of $\hat { Q } _ { 1 }$ becomes  

$$
\begin{array} { r l } & { U ( 1 ) _ { \hat { Q } _ { 1 } } : \delta e _ { \mathbf { k } } = i ( \cos k _ { z } \cos K \tau ^ { z } + \sin k _ { z } \sin K \eta ^ { z } \tau ^ { z } } \\ & { ~ + \sin k _ { z } \cos K \tau ^ { x } - \cos k _ { z } \sin K \eta ^ { z } \tau ^ { x } ) e _ { \mathbf { k } } , } \end{array}
$$  

which prohibits all mass terms except $m _ { j } ( { \bf k } ) \eta ^ { z } \sigma ^ { j }$ . However, these terms always commute with at least one term in the original Hamiltonian, so the result is a shift in the gapless modes rather than a gap. At a large enough pertubation, we can move the modes until $K = 0$ or $\pi$ , where the symmetry generators are aligned and no longer generate the whole $S U ( 2 )$ symmetry. At these special points, we will be able to open a symmetric gap.  

# IV. TIME REVERSAL SYMMETRIC SINGLEWEYL FERMION IN 3+1D  

So far, we have considered time-reversal breaking models. We can also construct time-reversal invariant models, at the cost of making the symmetry generator slightly more not-on-site. As long as $S ( \mathbf { k } )$ is a smooth function of the momentum, then the charge density in real space will be a sum of terms with faster-than-polynomial decay. Such “almost-local” operators share many properties with local operators, while being closed under Hamiltonian evolution generated by such terms [20, 21]. This will allow us to employ bump functions and partitions of unity in momentum space.  

To construct a time-reversal invariant model with a single protected Weyl fermion, we begin with a model on a cubic lattice with eight Weyl nodes. We use the BdG formalism with the basis $d _ { { \bf k } } ^ { \dagger } \equiv ( c _ { { \bf k } \mathrm { \uparrow } } ^ { \dagger } , c _ { { \bf k } \mathrm { \downarrow } } ^ { \dagger } , c _ { { \bf - k } \mathrm { \uparrow } } , c _ { { \bf - k } \mathrm { \downarrow } } )$ used above, giving the Hamiltonian  

$$
h _ { 8 } ^ { \mathrm { B d G } } ( \mathbf { k } ) = \frac { 1 } { 2 } \left[ \sin k _ { x } \sigma ^ { x } + \sin k _ { y } \sigma ^ { z } + \sin k _ { z } \tau ^ { z } \sigma ^ { y } \right] .
$$  

This model has Weyl nodes at all eight time-reversalinvariant-momentum (TRIM) points of the Brillouin zone, as well as a time-reversal symmetry $\Theta = i \sigma ^ { y } \mathcal { K }$ , where $\mathcal { K }$ is complex conjugation, satisfying $\Theta ^ { 2 } = - 1$ .  

We will now add a $U ( 1 )$ symmetry-breaking term that will gap out all Weyl nodes except the one at $\mathbf k = \mathbf 0$ . In order to facilitate our discussion, let us first define a bump function $B ( k )$ given by  

$$
B ( \mathbf { k } , w ) = { \left\{ \begin{array} { l l } { e ^ { - { \frac { w ^ { 2 } } { | \mathbf { k } | ^ { 2 } - w ^ { 2 } } } } } & { { \mathrm { f o r ~ } } | \mathbf { k } | < w } \\ { 0 } & { { \mathrm { f o r ~ } } | \mathbf { k } | \geq w } \end{array} \right. }
$$  