$\sigma ( i ^ { \prime } ) = 1$ for some $i ^ { \prime } \in J$ , then $\Xi _ { 1 } ( b _ { i ^ { \prime } } ^ { \sigma ( i ^ { \prime } ) } ) = \Xi _ { 1 } ( \sim b _ { i ^ { \prime } } ) = 0$ , so $\Xi \left( g ( \sigma ) \wedge \bigwedge _ { i \in J } b _ { i } ^ { \sigma ( i ) } \right) = 0$ . In conclusion, $\Xi ( a ) = \Xi _ { 0 } ( g ( \sigma ^ { 0 } ) )$ , where $\sigma ^ { 0 }$ is the constant map onto 0. □3.15  

We wonder whether the results of this section are valid when restricting to fams with the uap. These are not in general. For example, let $a \subseteq \omega$ be the set of even numbers, $\mathcal { B } : = \mathcal { P } ( \omega )$ , let $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ be the field of sets over $\omega$ generated by $a$ and let $F \subseteq { \mathcal { P } } ( \omega )$ be the filter of subsets of $\omega$ containing $\{ 0 , 1 \}$ . Let $\Xi _ { 0 }$ be the (unique) probability measure on $\mathcal { B }$ such that $\Xi ( a ) \ = \ \textstyle { \frac { 2 } { 3 } }$ (which is clearly uniformly supported). By Theorem 3.15, there is a unique probability fam $\Xi$ on $\langle \mathcal { B } _ { 0 } \cup F \rangle$ extending $\Xi _ { 0 }$ such that $\Xi ( b ) = 1$ for all $b \in F$ , in particular, $\Xi ( \{ 0 , 1 \} ) = 1$ . Then, $\Xi ( \{ 0 \} ) = \Xi ( a \cap \{ 0 , 1 \} ) = \Xi _ { 0 } ( a ) = { \textstyle { \frac { 2 } { 3 } } }$ and, naturally, $\Xi ( \{ 1 \} ) = { \textstyle { \frac { 1 } { 3 } } }$ . However, $\Xi$ cannot have the uap because no singleton can have measure $\textstyle { \frac { 2 } { 3 } }$ under a probability fam with the uap (by Theorem 2.18). This also shows that Theorem 3.8 is not valid in general when restricting to the uap: both $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { F }$ are uniformly supported, but any common extension extends $\Xi$ and thus cannot have the uap.  

We can validate Theorem 3.15 to fams with the uap under further conditions.  

Theorem 3.16. In Theorem 3.15, assume that ${ \mathcal { B } } = { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ and that $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ contains all the finite subsets of $X$ . If $\Xi _ { 0 }$ has the uap, then so does Ξ. Likewise for “uniformly supported”.  

Proof. If all finite sets have $\Xi _ { 0 }$ -measure zero, then the same is true for $\Xi$ . So assume that $\Xi _ { 0 }$ is uniformly supported with support $P$ . Since $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ contains all finite sets, all finite sets in $P$ with positive measure must be singletons (by minimality). It is not hard to show that $P$ is a support of $\Xi$ , so $\Xi$ is uniformly supported. □3.16  

Similarly, we can validate the extension results when adding one set to the subalgebra.  

Lemma 3.17. In the context of Lemma 3.11, assume that ${ \mathcal { B } } = { \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ and that $\mathcal { C }$ contains all the singletons. Then, if $\Xi$ has the uap, then $\Xi ^ { \prime }$ can be found with the uap. As a consequence, $\Xi$ can be extended to a fam into $K$ with the uap on the whole ${ \mathcal { P } } ( X )$ .  

Here, “uap” can be replaced by “uniformly supported”, even more, extensions of $\Xi$ can be found with the same support.  

Proof. The result is trivial when all singletons have $\Xi$ -measure zero. So assume that $\Xi$ is uniformly supported. The argument in the proof of Lemma 3.11, when replacing $A$ by a support of $\Xi$ , allows to find a uniformly supported $\Xi ^ { \prime }$ with the same support as $\Xi$ . The rest follows by Zorn’s Lemma. □3.17  

We ask whether (iii) ⇒ (i) of Theorem 3.8 is valid when $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { 1 }$ have the uap for finding $\Xi$ with the uap, under the condition that both $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ and $\mathcal { B } _ { 1 }$ contain all singletons. If, say, $\Xi _ { 0 }$ is free then $\Xi _ { 1 }$ and $\Xi$ must be free, but we do not know how to obtain an uniformly supported $\Xi$ when $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { 1 }$ are uniformly supported.  

Question 3.18. Assume that $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ and $\mathcal { B } _ { 1 }$ are fields of sets over $X$ , containing all the singletons, and $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { 1 }$ are uniformly supported fams with the uap on $\mathcal { B } _ { 0 }$ and $\mathcal { B } _ { 1 }$ , respectively. Assume that $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { 1 }$ are compatible (in the sense of Theorem 3.8 (iii)). Is there a uniformly supported fam that extends both $\Xi _ { 0 }$ and $\Xi _ { 1 }$ ?  

A strategy to solve this problem may suggest a short proof of Theorem 3.8.  